<doc_start>
international standards set by IALA for training and certification as the basis for training and certification of inland VTS personnel in inland waters to enable them to transition more easily to other VTS centres as part of their career progression.
It also recognizes that the closer an inland VTS is aligned to the international standard, the greater the potential for all training to be conducted to the same model course standard, achieving equivalent levels of safety, economies of scale and international/worldwide recognition of certification.
It follows, therefore, that similar processes of accreditation, competency, certification and revalidation should be adopted if these benefits are to be realized.
4.12. RISK MANAGEMENT 4.12.1. IALA GUIDANCE IALA provides guidance on risk assessment processes that assist in assessing the need for a VTS through risk management in: IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 14 The generic Recommendation R1002 Risk Management for Marine Aids to Navigation; and 
• Guideline G1018 Risk Management.
Three risk management tools are offered in guidelines: 
• G1123 The Use of IALA Waterway Risk Assessment Programme (IWRAP Mk II); 
• G1124 The Use of Ports and Waterways Safety Assessment (PAWSA) Mk II Tool; and 
• G1138 The Use of the Simplified IALA Risk Assessment Method (SIRA).
4.12.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS The guidance on the assessment of risk is based on international, territorial and coastal areas and in ports/harbours.
The tools set out in the IWRAP and PAWSA models may prove to be too sophisticated for an inland waterway.
However, SIRA provides a simpler process that may be more relevant.
Nevertheless, all draw on the capture of AIS information as important source data and this may still be very relevant to risk assessment of inland waters where such data can be gathered.
While the IALA recommendation R0119 on the establishment of a VTS and the associated Guideline G1150 on establishing, planning and implementing a VTS are based on the requirements for SOLAS vessels and IMO provisions, these documents set out basic principles, many of which will also be of significant relevance to an inland VTS.
The traffic characteristics of inland waters and the requirements of local, regional and national rules, regulations and conventions relating to inland waters should be taken into consideration when conducting risk assessment.
4.13. QUALITY MANAGEMENT 4.13.1. IALA GUIDANCE Where a formally appointed VTS is established, a quality management structure is considered necessary.
IALA provides guidance on quality management in the form of: Recommendation R0132 Quality Management for Aids to Navigation Authorities; and an associated Guideline G1052 Quality Management Systems for Aids to Navigation Service Delivery.
4.13.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS An inland VTS should have a quality management system in place where auditing should form part of such a process.
The IALA guidance may be adapted as appropriate, taking into account relevant national, regional and local requirements.
4.14. ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE RELATED TO THE PROVISION OF INLAND VTS 4.14.1. IALA GUIDANCE IALA provides guidance for AIS shore-based infrastructure and systems with applicability beyond just VTS that should be considered in establishing and operating VTS through: Recommendation R0123 The Provision of Shore Based Automatic Identification System (AIS); 
• Recommendation R0126 The Use of the Automatic Identification System (AIS) in Marine Aids to Navigation Services”; and 
• Guideline G1082 Overview of AIS.
IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 15 IALA also provides Guideline G1105 Shore-Side Portrayal Ensuring Harmonization with E-Navigation Related Information.
4.14.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS Many inland waterways draw heavily on AIS as a primary tool for vessel tracking, and it is important that the capabilities and limitations of AIS are fully understood.
Much of IALA’s Guideline G1082 Overview of AIS has equal relevance to inland VTS.
The specifications for AIS equipment on inland waterway vessels may differ from those for AIS on seagoing ships.
For example, in Europe, the specification for AIS on inland waterway vessels (Inland AIS) is based on AIS Class A but requires additional functionality to meet the needs of inland navigation.
There may be a higher proportion of vessels equipped with AIS Class B in inland waters.
An inland VTS may need to consider how AIS data from both inland waterway vessels and seagoing ships are presented on a VTS traffic image display system and how the AIS information can be checked for accuracy.
The buoyage system applied in inland waters may also be different from the IALA buoyage system.
This should be taken into account to avoid, as far as possible, any risk of conflict or confusion between the two systems of buoyage and particularly where there is a transition between the different buoyage systems.
The PIANC guidance “Guidelines and Recommendations for River Information Services (2019)” [5] and the PIANC report “E-Navigation for Inland Waterways (2017)” [6] may also be of relevance in considering VTS in
<doc_end>
