<doc_start>
[3] is associated with SOLAS Regulation V/12. It provides high-level guidance for planning, implementing and operating a vessel traffic service under national law.
This resolution notes that the International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and Lighthouse Authorities (IALA) has contributed significantly to the development of internationally harmonized guidance for vessel traffic services and states that: “Contracting Governments are encouraged to take into account IALA standards and associated recommendations, guidelines and model courses.” A State has sovereignty over its inland waters and may make laws to regulate inland waters and their use and may utilize any resource.
Foreign vessels have no right of passage within inland waters, and the passage of foreign vessels in inland waters may be regulated by national or regional legislation.
While the obligations of SOLAS Regulation V/12, IMO Resolution A.1158(32) and IALA standards do not apply in inland waters, it is recommended that their provisions are taken into account.
Noting the IMO regulatory framework for VTS does not apply in inland waters, the following definition for an inland vessel traffic service (inland VTS) has been adopted: “A service in inland waters implemented by an authority with the capability to interact with vessel traffic and respond to developing situations within a vessel traffic service area to improve the safety and efficiency of navigation, contribute to safety of life and support the protection of the environment.” 
2. PURPOSE The purpose of this Guideline is to assist authorities establish inland VTS in inland waters effectively and in a manner that reflects the international regulatory regime for VTS.
It identifies IALA recommendations and guidelines that may have relevance to inland VTS and offers considerations for applying or adapting IALA guidance to inland waters, which national administrations may wish to take into account when applying this to national legislation or policy.
This Guideline is associated with IALA Recommendation R0119 (V-119) Establishment of a VTS.
This Guideline is an informative document which describes desirable practices to assist authorities establishing inland VTS to plan, implement and operate them in a harmonized manner that is aligned with IALA Standards as IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 5 appropriate to minimize any confusion to masters of sea-going ships and skippers of inland waterway vessels moving from one vessel traffic service area to another.

3. FEATURES OF INLAND VTS Inland waterway vessels, including barges, operating in inland waters may navigate beyond inland waters into coastal and port/harbour areas.
On the other hand, seagoing ships may operate in inland waters.
It follows, therefore, that there are considerable benefits in the control and management of vessel traffic in inland waters being harmonized to similar global standards as far as is appropriate and to follow the IALA guidance for operating VTS in coastal waters and port/harbour areas.
Authorities should, therefore, consider legislating for the control and management of vessels operating in inland waters to be aligned as appropriate with the guidance provided for VTS covering coastal waters and port/harbour areas.
There are many features of inland VTS that may require consideration in the development of a national policy and a regulatory framework.
3.1. SHIPS AND CREW Inland waterway vessels comprise a wide variety of different types, often with different characteristics to sea going ships and may be subject to different regulatory requirements.
Particular consideration may need to be given to: carriage requirements for VHF radiotelephone, AIS and other communication equipment; 
• crewing standards; 
• safety measures; requirements for vessels intended for the carriage of passengers, and high-speed craft (HSC); requirements and monitoring of vessels carrying dangerous goods; and pollution prevention requirements (may differ from MARPOL).
Skippers and other persons responsible for the navigation of inland waterway vessels may have limited VTS awareness and a lack of skills and knowledge of procedures when communicating with a VTS and other vessels.
Differing local dialects and an inability to communicate other than in their native language may further complicate communications between inland waterway vessels, sea-going ships, port authorities and VTS personnel.
3.2. VESSEL TRAFFIC FLOW In the inland waters connected to the sea area and in coastal areas, vessel traffic and vessel traffic flow is often affected by the tide, meteorological conditions (the wind, icing, fog etc.) and seasonal variations in fluvial flow.
There may, therefore, be a peak vessel traffic flow during the period of rapid rise and fall of the tide as well as during a rapid change of weather conditions.
An inland VTS concerns the operational management of traffic and the forward planning of vessel movements to prevent congestion and dangerous situations.
An inland VTS is particularly relevant in times of high traffic density or when the movement of special transports may affect the flow of other traffic.
Due to the limited dimensions of many fairways in inland waters and permanent inland waterway structures
<doc_end>
