<doc_start>
inability to communicate other than in their native language may further complicate communications between inland waterway vessels, sea-going ships, port authorities and VTS personnel.
3.2. VESSEL TRAFFIC FLOW In the inland waters connected to the sea area and in coastal areas, vessel traffic and vessel traffic flow is often affected by the tide, meteorological conditions (the wind, icing, fog etc.) and seasonal variations in fluvial flow.
There may, therefore, be a peak vessel traffic flow during the period of rapid rise and fall of the tide as well as during a rapid change of weather conditions.
An inland VTS concerns the operational management of traffic and the forward planning of vessel movements to prevent congestion and dangerous situations.
An inland VTS is particularly relevant in times of high traffic density or when the movement of special transports may affect the flow of other traffic.
Due to the limited dimensions of many fairways in inland waters and permanent inland waterway structures such as locks, dams, weirs and bridges, the distribution of docks, berths and anchorages may be concentrated and, in some sections, vessel traffic may be dense.
Therefore, it may be difficult for an inland VTS to predict the position of vessels through Time to Closest Point of Approach (TCPA) and Closest Point of Approach (CPA) and some IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 6 information may be limited.
As a result, it may be necessary to rely on broader traffic organization measures to implement VTS traffic management.
In relatively large water systems, lakes and busy inland waterways, there may be a succession of inland VTS centres with adjacent VTS Areas; in such circumstances, coordination among VTS centres and other contributing centres will be important.
3.3. EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEMS When a VTS system is established in inland waters, it is maybe prone to radar clutter and low resolution.
Due to the large number of vessels being tracked, the AIS signal may become less reliable or even lost, especially when AIS class B is being used.
The VTS alarm function may also be difficult to use effectively.
In some circumstances, CCTV may have increased importance as an inland VTS sensor.
Inland VTS may be enhanced by linking it to bespoke systems for tracking, such as the European Vessel Tracking and Tracing (VTT) system.
When the inland VTS covers a long and narrow section of an inland waterway, the VHF working channels of nearby inland VTS centres may cause interference.
Inland waters may naturally be close to shore and in areas covered by Wi-Fi or other mobile networks.
Thus, some ship-to-shore communication can be carried out in a more timely and effective manner through these networks.
However, consideration should be given to the potential reduction in situational awareness if public networks are used as an alternative to simplex VHF channels.
Inland AIS equipment carried by inland waterway vessels should be compatible with the maritime AIS; it enables direct data exchange in areas where both sea-going ships and inland waterway vessels may be navigating.
3.4. GENERAL NAVIGATION ENVIRONMENT In inland waters, the dimensions of the fairway, the presence of bridges, dams, weirs, ship locks, revetments and other permanent structures, together with the arrangement of aids to navigation and varying water levels, may cause restrictions on the navigation and operation of vessels.
An inland VTS centre may need to process a large amount of information in real time.
For some sections of inland waterways, the arrangement of a passage plan, a system of traffic clearances or other appropriate measures may be required.

4. IALA GUIDANCE OF RELEVANCE TO INLAND VTS The IALA VTS Manual [4] provides a source of reference on the establishment and provision of a VTS for all stakeholders.
It also provides a pointer to the suite of IALA standards related to VTS and the associated recommendations, guidelines and model courses.
IALA standards apply to VTS in international, territorial and coastal areas and in ports/harbours.
Many of the associated recommendations and guidelines may also have a relevance to inland VTS.
However, the applicability of this Guideline to inland waters may vary considerably dependent on such high-level aspects as the density of traffic, the type of vessels navigating the inland waterway, the nature of the inland waterway and the applicable local, regional and national provisions.
If it is decided that an inland VTS should be established, IALA guidance should be considered with due regard to inland waters.
This includes, but is not limited to, the considerations in the sections below.
This Guideline should be read in conjunction with the IALA VTS Manual.
Each of the subheadings that follow are aligned with those of the VTS Manual.
Each subheading is followed with: IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 7 
• an “IALA Guidance” subsection identifying
<doc_end>
