<doc_start>
AIS on inland waterway vessels (Inland AIS) is based on AIS Class A but requires additional functionality to meet the needs of inland navigation.
There may be a higher proportion of vessels equipped with AIS Class B in inland waters.
An inland VTS may need to consider how AIS data from both inland waterway vessels and seagoing ships are presented on a VTS traffic image display system and how the AIS information can be checked for accuracy.
The buoyage system applied in inland waters may also be different from the IALA buoyage system.
This should be taken into account to avoid, as far as possible, any risk of conflict or confusion between the two systems of buoyage and particularly where there is a transition between the different buoyage systems.
The PIANC guidance “Guidelines and Recommendations for River Information Services (2019)” [5] and the PIANC report “E-Navigation for Inland Waterways (2017)” [6] may also be of relevance in considering VTS in Inland Waters.

5. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) at http://www.iala-aism.org/wiki/dictionary and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.
In addition, for this document, the following definitions are specifically related to inland waters: Convoy “Convoy” means a towed convoy, a pushed convoy or a side-by-side formation; a.
“towed convoy” means an assembly of one or more vessels, floating establishments or assemblies of floating material towed by one or more motorized vessels, the later forming part of the convoy and being known as tugs; b.
“pushed convoy” means a rigid assembly of vessels, of which at least one is placed in front of the motorized vessel propelling the convoy and is known as a pusher.
A convoy composed of a pusher and a pushed craft so as to permit guided articulation is also considered as rigid; c.
“side-by-side formation” means an assembly of vessels coupled side-by-side, none of which is placed in front of the motorized vessel propelling the assembly.
(UNECE resolution No.
24, European Code for Inland Waterways, revision 6) Inland AIS Inland AIS means AIS for the use in inland navigation and interoperable with (maritime) AIS – technically enabled by amendments and extensions to the (maritime) AIS.
(UNECE resolution No.
63, International Standard for Tracking and Tracing on Inland Waterways (VTT), revision 2) IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 16 Inland VTS Inland vessel traffic service (inland VTS) – a service in inland waters implemented by an authority with the capability to interact with vessel traffic and respond to developing situations within a vessel traffic service area to improve the safety and efficiency of navigation, contribute to safety of life and support the protection of the environment.
(Adapted from the definition in the new IMO Resolution to apply to inland waters) Inland waters/Inland Inland waters or inland waterways are rivers, lakes or other stretches of water, whether waterways linked to the sea or landlocked, which by natural or man-made features are suitable for navigation.
(UNECE resolution No.
58, Guidelines and Criteria for Vessel Traffic Services on Inland Waterways) Inland waterway Inland waterway vessel is a vessel intended solely or mainly for navigation on inland vessel waterways.
(UNECE resolution No.
61, Recommendations on Harmonized Europe-Wide Technical Requirements for Inland Navigation Vessels, revision 2) Vessel Tracking and Vessel Tracking and Tracing (VTT) combines the functions of tracking and tracing as Tracing (VTT) follows: 
• Vessel Tracking means the function of maintaining status information of the vessel, such as the current position and characteristics and – if needed – combined with information on cargo and consignments.

• Vessel Tracing means the retrieving of information concerning the whereabouts of the vessel and, if needed, information on cargo, consignments and equipment.
(UNECE resolutions Nos.
57, Guidelines and Recommendations for River Information Services, revised, and 63) 
6. ABBREVIATIONS UNECE United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Vessel traffic service or vessel traffic services (dependent on context) VTT Vessel Tracking and Tracing 
7. REFERENCES UN.
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 IMO.
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) [2] IMO.
Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services [4] IALA.
VTS Manual PIANC.
InCom WG 125/I: Guidelines and Recommendations for River Information Services (2019) PIANC.
InCom WG 156: E-Navigation for Inland Waterways (2017) IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 17
<doc_end>
