<doc_start>
and model courses.
IALA standards apply to VTS in international, territorial and coastal areas and in ports/harbours.
Many of the associated recommendations and guidelines may also have a relevance to inland VTS.
However, the applicability of this Guideline to inland waters may vary considerably dependent on such high-level aspects as the density of traffic, the type of vessels navigating the inland waterway, the nature of the inland waterway and the applicable local, regional and national provisions.
If it is decided that an inland VTS should be established, IALA guidance should be considered with due regard to inland waters.
This includes, but is not limited to, the considerations in the sections below.
This Guideline should be read in conjunction with the IALA VTS Manual.
Each of the subheadings that follow are aligned with those of the VTS Manual.
Each subheading is followed with: IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 7 
• an “IALA Guidance” subsection identifying IALA guidance of potential relevance to inland waters.
The IALA VTS Manual should be referred to for a short description and up-to-date referencing for any of the documents quoted; and 
• an “Inland Waters Considerations” subsection setting out considerations and best practices that may apply in inland waters.
4.1. REGULATORY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK 4.1.1. IALA GUIDANCE The IALA VTS Manual identifies SOLAS Regulation V/12 and IMO Resolution A.1158(32) as the primary basis of the regulatory and legal framework for a VTS.
It also notes that IMO Resolution A.1158(32) encourages Contracting Governments to take into account IALA standards and associated recommendations, guidelines and model courses.
The VTS manual describes the types of documents relating to VTS and their purposes.
It also highlights the key responsibilities of Contracting Governments and competent authorities set out in IMO Resolution A.1158(32) for implementing and operating a VTS.
4.1.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS It is recommended as best practice that an inland VTS: 
• is aligned to international standards set out by IMO and expanded upon by IALA as far as is reasonably practicable; 
• is formally established in national law; has appointed inland VTS providers that are legally empowered; and is coordinated between nations at borders or where responsibilities are shared.
The national structure may differ from that recommended in IMO Resolution A.1158(32) [3]; however, it is recommended that provision is made to ensure that: a legal basis for an inland VTS is established; a regulatory framework for establishing and operating an inland VTS is put in place; inland VTS providers are authorized to operate an inland VTS within a delineated VTS area; and 
• a compliance and enforcement framework with respect to violations of inland VTS regulatory requirements is established.
Local, regional or national regulations may be required to reflect the navigable environment as well as custom and practice relating to such issues as pilotage, prohibited zones and traffic control which will usually take precedence.
It should be noted that the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea only apply to vessels on the high seas and all waters connected to the high seas and navigable by seagoing ships.
Special regional and/or national rules may apply in inland waters.
Special consideration may be needed for areas where inland waters are connected to the high seas and coastal areas and to the transition between different regulatory regimes.
4.2. INLAND VTS IMPLEMENTATION 4.2.1. IALA GUIDANCE IALA provides guidance on planning and implementing a VTS.
References relevant to implementation include: IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 8 Recommendation R0119 Establishment of VTS 
• Guideline G1150 Establishing, planning and implementing a VTS 
• Guideline G1160 Competencies for planning and implementing VTS In waterways where a national authority is of the opinion that the navigational complexity, volume of traffic or the degree of risk does not justify the establishment of a VTS, a Local Port Service (LPS) may be implemented.
In such circumstances, IALA provides guidance in Guideline G1142, The Provision of Local Port Services other than VTS.
Further guidance is also provided in Guideline G1083 Standard Nomenclature to Identify and Refer to a VTS.
4.2.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS IMO Resolution A.1158(32) states the responsibilities of a VTS provider and those of participating ships which may also be relevant to an inland VTS.
In particular, an inland VTS should be provided with appropriate equipment, systems and facilities for the delivery of the inland VTS and should be adequately staffed with inland VTS personnel who are appropriately trained and qualified.
This is further expanded in IALA guidance.
If it is assessed that the navigational complexity, volume of traffic or the degree of risk does not justify the establishment of an inland VTS but that some form of co-ordination of local services is required, then note should be taken of the provisions of Guideline G1142 for the
<doc_end>
