<doc_start>
Communications; and 
• an associated Guideline G1132 providing greater detail on “VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology”.
4.4.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS IALA documentation seeks to ensure the harmonization of procedures and communications worldwide.
Both inland waterway vessels and seagoing ships may operate in inland waters and may transit both inland and port/harbour VTS areas.
National administrations should ensure that inland VTS providers follow the IALA guidance as far as is reasonably practicable.
It is recognized that local language may be the primary language for an inland VTS, but the principles of phraseology and standardized phrases recommended by IALA should still be used when translated into the local language and the principles for VTS nomenclature should be followed.
Local, regional and national agreements and recommendations of river commissions on the use of the language in radio communications on inland waterways may apply.
Inland waterway administrations may consider the application of the provisions of the IALA recommendations and guideline relating to the voice communication in full or partially, taking into account special regional and/or national rules.
Inland VTS providers should take measures to eliminate or minimize interference to VHF communications, while also considering alternative means of communication as a backup.
4.5. INLAND VTS AUDITING AND ASSESSING 4.5.1. IALA GUIDANCE A VTS should be routinely evaluated to ensure that the operational objectives are being met, the technical and operational performance is acceptable and that the risks identified and defined in determining the need for the VTS have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
IALA provides: Recommendation R1013 Auditing and Assessing Vessel Traffic Services; and an associated Guideline G1101 Auditing and Assessing a VTS.
IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 10 4.5.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS The IALA guidance on auditing and assessing a VTS provides a basis for development of assessment procedures and control measures which is largely applicable to an inland VTS.
The responsibilities may differ from those set out in the Guideline on auditing and assessing a VTS.
The annexed checklists to the Guideline may also require further modification to suit the individual circumstances of a particular inland VTS, but the subject headings are most relevant and provide a good starting point to identify checks that should be considered.
4.6. INLAND VTS ADDITIONAL SERVICES 4.6.1. IALA GUIDANCE VTS is often involved in providing information and supporting other services due to its capacity to maintain a traffic image and interact with ships and other services in the VTS area.
IALA provides the following guidelines: 
• G1070 VTS Role in Managing Restricted or Limited Access Areas; 
• G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services; and 
• G1130 Technical Aspects of Information Exchange between VTS and Allied or Other Services.
4.6.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS Interactions between allied/other services and an inland VTS may differ, and restricted or limited access areas may still be encountered in some inland waters.
Reference to the relevant IALA guidance may be of value in such cases.
Standards for vessel tracking and tracing, electronic ship reporting in inland navigation and notices to skippers may also be relevant.
There may be a greater number of additional services associated with an inland VTS compared with VTS in coastal and port/harbour areas and may have an enhanced significance.
Administrations should define the additional services and identify where they apply.
If the additional services include allied or other services, inland VTS providers should develop the issues, criteria, and principles to be applied.
4.7. INLAND VTS DATA AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT 4.7.1. IALA GUIDANCE The compilation of an accurate traffic image is essential for VTS personnel to monitor traffic, evaluate situations and make decisions accordingly.
The traffic image is dependent on the integration and portrayal of data from different sensors (e.g., radar, AIS and CCTV), information from reports such as VHF voice or data, and is supported by an effective data and information management framework.
IALA provides: Recommendation R1014 Portrayal of VTS Information and Data; and Recommendation R0125 Use and Presentation of Symbology at a VTS Centre.
4.7.2. INLAND WATERS CONSIDERATIONS While an inland VTS may have a restricted set of functions, many of the principles set out in the guidance on the portrayal of information to VTS personnel will be relevant in establishing a suitable environment for inland VTS operations.
IALA Guideline G1166 VTS in Inland Waters Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1166:ed1.1 P 11 The use of symbology to identify vessels of particular interest such as passenger vessels, vessels carrying dangerous goods and vessels restricted in their ability to manoeuvre can be of particular use in improving situational awareness in an inland VTS.
Regional and competent authorities responsible for inland waters may wish to consider the development and application of harmonized exchange of information to support traffic and transport management and the transfer of information between operators, vessels and allied or other services.
<doc_end>
