<doc_start>
maritime environments (see example in Figure 2).
VTS Personnel Recruitment and Career Progression Recruitment Approved Training Recruitment Approved Training Recruit candidate VTS Personnel @ = Abinitio Related experience (i.e) : PEE QUe @ = Port / Harbour @ = Administration @ = Merchant marine / navy @ —Non-maritime - communications @ —Non-maritime — ATC ——— Approved training 0103-1 0103-2 0103-3 0103-4 0103-5 VTS Centre VTS Centre » VTS Operator v VTS OST Instructor x VTS Supervisor i | Vv |} VTS Manager Recruitment Approved Training VTS Centre Recruit candidate VTS Personnel @ = Abinitio » VTS Operator v Related experience (i.e) : PEE QUe VTS OST Instructor @ = Port / Harbour @ = Administration x @ = Merchant marine / VTS Supervisor navy i @ —Non-maritime - | communications Vv @ —Non-maritime — ATC ——— |} VTS Manager Approved training 0103-1 0103-2 0103-3 0103-4 0103-5 Recruit candidate VTS Personnel @ = Abinitio Related experience (i.e) : PEE QUe @ = Port / Harbour @ = Administration @ = Merchant marine / navy @ —Non-maritime - communications @ —Non-maritime — ATC » VTS Operator VTS OST Instructor x VTS Supervisor i VTS Manager Approved training 0103-1 0103-2 0103-3 0103-4 0103-5 Figure 2 VTS Career progression 
11. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) at http://www.iala-aism.org/wiki/dictionary and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.
In addition, for the purpose of this Guideline, the following definitions and clarifications have been used: Accreditation (of a training organization) is the formal endorsement by a competent authority that a training organization operates under a quality management system to deliver effective training (Reference – G1014) IALA Guideline G1156 Recruitment, Training and Certification of VTS Personnel Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1156:ed2.0 P 21 Approval (of IALA model courses) is the formal endorsement by the competent authority that a training organization meets the standards specified in an IALA model course for its implementation, delivery and assessment.
(Reference – G1014) Adaptation training is carried out whenever significant changes to VTS operations are expected or when changes have been made, concerning equipment, regulations, operational procedures or any other matter which is relevant to the performance of VTS personnel.
(Reference – G1156 Section 9.1) Certificate is a document that confirms that a student has met the requirements for the award of a specific qualification.
The certificate is evidence that VTS personnel are considered competent for their VTS duties (certification).
(Reference – G1156 Section 8.2) Competent authority means the entity made responsible by the Government for vessel traffic services.
(Reference – IMO Resolution A.1158(32) Competence is having the knowledge, skills, attitude and personal attributes necessary to safely, effectively and efficiently to perform the tasks associated with VTS On-the-job training (OJT) is intended to provide the required knowledge, practical competence, skills and attitude to undertake duties at the VTS when they are employed.
(Reference – G1156 Section 6.2.3) Performance assessment is a process used to evaluate an individual’s job performance in carrying out specific tasks or functions associated with VTS duties.
This assessment provides insights into their effectiveness and skills, while also identifying areas for improvement and development.
(Reference – G1156 Section 9.1.1) Qualification is the education, knowledge, understanding, proficiency, skill, experience or any other attribute which the competent authority has determined desirable for performing the duties of the position.
VTS qualifications should be based on the principle that satisfactory results are obtained on completion of the IALA VTS model courses.
(Reference – G1156 section 8.1) Recognition of prior learning (RPL) is a process of assessing the experience, knowledge, skills, attitudes and competencies acquired by an applicant (through formal or informal learning) against a given set of learning outcomes, objectives, or standards to determine whether the required learning and competency has been achieved.
(Reference – G1017) Revalidation training is the periodic, structured training designed to refresh, maintain, and enhance skills, knowledge and competencies of VTS personnel, ensuring the ongoing validity of their VTS qualifications.
(Reference – G1156 section 9.3) Simulation training is a form of experiential learning that uses a realistic, safe and controlled environment to: 
• develop and improve skills in the provision of VTS; 
• assess the levels of competencies of new and existing VTS personnel; and 
• maintain the levels of competencies of existing VTS personnel.
(Reference - G1027) Training Needs Analysis identifies and evaluates gaps between the current skills, knowledge, and competencies of individuals, and those required as a VTS operator.
(Reference – G1156 Annex A) Training organization is an entity accredited by the competent authority and approved to deliver one or more IALA model courses.
(Reference – G1014) Unstructured learning (or
<doc_end>
