<doc_start>
periodic assessments (e.g.
performance assessments, competency based tests) revalidation records 
• any other relevant course or training successfully completed (e.g., first aid training) Competent Authorities or VTS providers may consider issuing a VTS certification log as a means to formally record course certificates and training activities of VTS personnel.
The log should include (but not be limited to): the holder’s full name the country in which it was awarded 
• date of birth and/or unique identification information 
• the date of issue 
• a unique certificate number 
• brief details of the VTS qualifications held, including the certificate number IALA Guideline G1156 Recruitment, Training and Certification of VTS Personnel Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1156:ed2.0 P 14 
9. MAINTAINING QUALIFICATIONS As indicated in IMO Resolution A.1158(32) 8.2 - VTS personnel should only be considered competent when appropriately trained and qualified for their VTS duties, and, 8.2.3 undergoing periodic assessments and revalidation training to ensure competence is maintained.
In this context, “revalidation” refers to the process required to maintain a VTS qualification.
A structured process for revalidation and continued professional development ensures that holders of VTS qualifications maintain and develop skills, improve their competency, and prevents skills and knowledge from degrading over time.
To ensure qualifications remain current VTS personnel should participate in required training, stay informed about new procedures, refresh knowledge, and demonstrate ongoing competency.
VTS providers should establish processes and procedures for maintaining qualifications and continual professional development to ensure VTS personnel remain qualified to conduct their VTS duties taking into account of any additional requirements identified by the Competent Authority.
Consideration should be given to the following areas: 
• Periodic assessments to verify competence and address cases where personnel fall below required competency levels.

• A training strategy to continue the development of skills.

• A training strategy to cope with changes in the VTS environment, including regulatory, operational and technical (adaptation training).

• Revalidation training within the time frame as determined by the competent authority.

• Procedures for personnel returning after a break in service.

• Maintenance of additional qualifications where VTS personnel hold VTS supervisor or OJT Instructor certificates.
The process for maintaining qualifications should address the VTS duties carried out by VTS personnel.
This includes initial VTS training (C0103-1 VTS Operator and C0103-3 VTS OJT) as well as role specific training (C0103-2 VTS Supervisor and C0103-4 VTS OJT Instructor).
The process for maintaining qualifications may vary depending on the requirements of the competent authority, the operational requirements of the VTS provider, and the individual’s training needs.
This includes an approach including periodic assessments as well as specific revalidation training.
The training activities to maintain qualifications are presented in figure 
1. IALA Guideline G1156 Recruitment, Training and Certification of VTS Personnel Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1156:ed2.0 P 15 Initial Training (C0103-1 VTS operator, C0103-3 OJT) +------~;| OJT Instructor) | Additional VTS Qualifications (C0103-2 VTS Supervisor, CO103-4 1 1 1 1 -!
Maintaining Qualifications Periodic Assessments Skills and Development Revalidation Training Unstructured Learning Figure 1 Process to maintain qualifications VTS providers should ensure that VTS personnel holding C0103-2 VTS Supervisor and C0103-4 On-the-Job Training (OJT) Instructor certificates also maintain their qualifications to confirm ongoing competence in those areas.
A training needs analysis process may be used to identify any additional training requirements that may be required to ensure VTS personnel refresh, maintain, and enhance skills, knowledge and competencies ensuring the ongoing validity of their VTS qualifications.
Table 1 provides an overview of the different training components, requirements and frequency to assist VTS personnel to ensure competence is maintained.
Table 1 Overview of Training Components, Requirements and Frequency Component Requirement Frequency PERIODIC ASSESSMENTS Performance assessments Once trained and qualified, regular performance assessments of VTS personnel are undertaken to ensure that the established standards continue to be met.
As determined by the VTS Provider - Annually, or more frequently.
Assessing Competency in VTS Communications Periodic tests are to be completed to assess competency with standard message structure and phrases.
As determined by the VTS Provider - Annually, or more frequently SKILLS AND DEVELOPMENT TRAINING Training to be completed when significant changes to VTS As determined by the VTS Adaptation training operations are expected, such as changes associated with provider, preferably before equipment, regulations, operational procedures etc.
the change(s) takes place.
Updating training A tailor-made programme based on a training needs analysis which identifies that an individual requires additional training to maintain competency.
As determined by the VTS provider within the requirements of the Competent Authority Other training Additional training programs that may address specific learning needs of personnel at a VTS.
As determined by the VTS provider, requirements of IALA Guideline G1156 Recruitment, Training and Certification of VTS Personnel Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1156:ed2.0 P 16 Component Requirement Frequency the relevant qualification or national requirements REVALIDATION TRAINING Revalidation training Structured training course or program that ensures
<doc_end>
