<doc_start>

• the semantics of the data fields, including the appropriate context; and the permissible ranges of a data field, including representation of invalid/not available data.
The IHO S-100 standard [9] (ISO 19xxx- series) is a specific framework standard for the development of data models for a variety of common and maritime-specific information.
S-100 data models are maintained in the IHO GI Registry and IALA was assigned its own section within this registry.
3.2.2.1. Version Control Version control procedures should be established to allow additions to and/or further development of the technical interface.
Preferably, versioning should be defined as a part of the technical interface.
3.3. TIMING 3.3.1. MESSAGING PATTERN Different messaging patterns may be used, depending on the specific data sharing requirements.
In particular, data may be sent from one sender to exactly one receiver or from one sender to many receivers.
The following patterns are most common: IALA Guideline G1130 Technical Aspects of Information Exchange Between VTS and Allied or Other Services Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1130:ed2.0 e P 6 
• Publish versus Subscribe; with “publish”, the sender determines what data will be made available and when (independent of any receivers); with “subscribe” the receiver requests what (and, sometimes, when) data will be sent.

• Push versus Pull; with “push” the sender determines what data will be sent and when; with “pull” the receiver requests what data will be sent and when.

• Request/response; with “request” the receiver sends a request for data to the sender; with “response” the sender determines when the requested data will be sent to the receiver.
Continuous data connection (possibly with a “heart beat” to allow redundancy).

• Time stamping.
In principle, data should be appropriately time stamped.
The time stamp should preferably be at the time of origin of the data.
If this is not possible, the data should be time-stamped when received.
Proper time stamping is a pre-requisite, e.g., for proper sequencing of the data and recording and replay.
3.4. AVAILABILITY AND DATA INTEGRITY 3.4.1. AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES Careful consideration should be given to the required availability as part of the agreement between VTS and allied or other services.
A trade-off should be made between availability and cost.
High levels of availability require more complex system architectures and correspondingly higher costs.
A simple means of improving availability is by having spare parts readily available (which reduces the repair time).
More complex solutions use redundant hardware and/or services.
3.4.2. AVAILABILITY OF DATA Consideration should be given to proper backup of data.
This means that data can be restored in case it gets corrupted or deleted: 
• Backup frequency (incremental/full) 
• Backup media (disk/tape/cloud/paper punch) 
• Retention of backup copies Time needed to restore data from backup Safekeeping of backup copies (protection, geographic diversity) 3.4.3. DATA INTEGRITY Data integrity is a key concern for both users and providers of data.
This means that, in general, data should be traceable to its origin; data corruption/alteration should be detectable; data should be properly time-stamped and should, preferably, have a quality attribute; and 
• data providers should have procedures in place to ensure the proper functioning of the data capture/generation process.
Data that is not available or is detected as invalid should be represented as such.
3.5. SECURITY IALA Guideline G1130 Technical Aspects of Information Exchange Between VTS and Allied or Other Services Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1130:ed2.0 3 P 7 3.5.1. CYBER SECURITY It is recommended to adopt an appropriate cyber-security framework that defines the measures to safeguard uncompromised system operation and to prevent unauthorised access.
These measures may include: revising system and network architecture; reconsidering system access procedures for both internal and external users; 
• establishing procedures to maintain software updated to the latest security patches, including software on network- and housekeeping devices; 
• monitoring and validating system network dataflows; and properly safeguarding legacy systems that are still in operation.
Where, traditionally, systems operated in closed environments, increasingly, VTS systems need to share data with external stakeholders.
This requires due consideration of authentication and authorisation of these external stakeholder, but also of measures to protect the data exchange as outlined in the following sections.
3.5.2. DATA CONFIDENTIALITY The data exchanged between VTS, and allied or other services may have considerable business value and/or contain data that is privacy-sensitive.
Therefore, proper care should be taken to protect this data while stored and during transmission.
It is recommended to use an appropriately secured transmission channel, e.g., a virtual private network (VPN), to avoid unauthorized access during data transmission.
Also, when sensitive data is stored, it may be appropriate to encrypt the data.
Specific legal constraints may apply to data that can be related to the identity of persons.
3.5.3. DATA ACCESSIBILITY Access to data should be properly governed, which means that proper procedures should be set-up to limit access
<doc_end>
