<doc_start>
tide.
Subsea installations may also have safety zones to protect them.
A.4. PARTICULARLY SENSITIVE SEA AREA (PSSA) A PSSA is an area of the marine environment that needs special protection through action by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) because of its significance for recognized ecological, socio-economic, or scientific attributes where such attributes may be vulnerable to damage by international shipping activities.
A.5. MILITARY EXERCISE AREA (OR FIRING RANGE) A military exercise area may involve the firing of live ammunition in an area within defined limits but may allow restricted access for vessels at designated times.
A.6. NATIONAL PARK A national park is a reserve of land or water, usually declared and owned by a national government, protected from most human development and pollution.
A.7. EXCLUSION ZONE An exclusion zone is a geographical area, within which all other vessels should remain clear unless authorized.
The size and shape of the area may vary depending on the risks involved.
A.8. SHIP SAFETY ZONE A ship safety zone is an area around a vessel within which all other vessels should remain clear unless authorized.
The size of the ship safety zone may vary depending upon such factors as the dimensions of the waterway, ship size, ship characteristics, cargo, and the degree of risk.
The dimensions selected should be determined taking into account these details and a relevant risk assessment.
IALA Guideline G1070 VTS Role in Managing Restricted or Limited Access Areas Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1070:ed1.1 e P 7 ANNEX B VTS MANAGEMENT TOOLS FOR RESTRICTED OR LIMITED ACCESS AREAS Type of area Management tool Purpose of tool 1 Surveillance measures (e.g., radar, CCTV, AIS, and communications) 1 Identification and position of vessels Prohibited anchorage 2 Marine Aids to Navigation 2 Indicating the position and limits of the area 3 Navigational warnings, Notice to Mariners (NtM).
3 Communicating any restrictions to shipping Area To Be Avoided (ATBA) 1 2 Surveillance measures (e.g., radar, CCTV, AIS, and communications) Marine Aids to Navigation 1 2 Identification and position of vessels Indicating the position and limits of the area 3 Navigational warnings and NtM 3 Communicating any restrictions to shipping 1 Surveillance measures (e.g., radar, CCTV, AIS, and communications) 1 Identification and position of vessels Ensure safety of vessels in the area Safety zone 2 Guard vessel / aircraft 2 through physical intervention with approaching vessels 3 Marine Aids to Navigation 3 Indicating the position and limits of the area 4 Navigational warnings and NtM 4 Communicating any restrictions to shipping Particular Sensitive Sea Area (PSSA) 1 Surveillance measures (e.g., radar, CCTV, AIS, and communications) 1 Identification and position of vessels Other associated 2 Marine Aids to Navigation 2 Indicating the position / limits of the area protective measures may apply 3 Navigational warnings and NtM 3 Communicating any restrictions to shipping 1 Surveillance measures (e.g., radar, CCTV, AIS, and communications) 1 Identification and position of vessels Ensure safety of vessels in the area Military exercise area (or firing range) 2 3 Guard vessel / aircraft Marine Aids to Navigation 2 3 through physical intervention with approaching vessels Indicating the position / limits of the area 4 Navigational warnings, NtM 4 Communicating any restrictions to shipping 5 Shore based marking 5 Ensure safety of shipping and pleasure craft operating near the exercise area 1 Surveillance measures (e.g., radar, CCTV, AIS, and communications) 1 Identification and position of vessels National Park 2 Marine Aids to Navigation 2 Indicating the position and limits of the area 3 Navigational warnings, NtM 3 Communicating any restrictions to shipping 1 Surveillance measures (e.g., radar, CCTV, AIS, and communications) 1 Identification and position of vessels Ensure safety of vessels in the area 2 Guard vessel / aircraft 2 through physical intervention with Ship safety zone approaching vessels 3 Marine Aids to Navigation 3 Indicating the position / limits of the area 4 Navigational warnings, NtM 4 Communicating any restrictions to shipping 5 Use of text messages from vessel’s AIS 5 Indicating the position / limits of the area transponder IALA Guideline G1070 VTS Role in Managing Restricted or Limited Access Areas Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1070:ed1.1 e P 8
<doc_end>
