<doc_start>
to incidents and pollution events including the activation of contingency plans, business continuity plans, etc.
Media and public relations enquiries.
Emergency response Incident investigation and near miss reporting.
Leading incident and near-miss debriefings with the VTS personnel.
Critical incident stress management.
Techniques to assist in the management of personnel.
Performance management of personnel.
People management Coaching and mentoring.
Interpersonal communication skills to deliver a message to the personnel in a clear manner.
Internal contingency plans.
Health and safety Healthy, supportive work environment that addresses psychological and physical safety.
Monitoring and reporting procedures related to work environment.
Time management to improve productivity and make better use of time.
Personal attributes Decision making.
Leadership development.
Equipment and technology Technologies and equipment used in VTS.
Project management The discipline of planning and executing projects.
IALA Guideline G1167 VTS Management Edition 1.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1167:ed1.0 P 9 Subject Training topics that may be considered to acquire the desirable competencies Regulatory framework International as well as local acts, regulations, laws and delegations.
Quality management Developing, implementing and maintaining a quality management system.
Analysis of all the hazards in a VTS area in order to manage and mitigate risks.
Risk management IALA risk management tools.

7. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) at http://www.iala-aism.org/wiki/dictionary and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.

8. ABBREVIATIONS PDCA Plan Do Check Act VTS Vessel traffic service or vessel traffic services (dependent on context) 
9. REFERENCES IMO.
Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services [2] IALA.
VTS Manual IALA.
Guideline G1156 Recruitment, Training and Assessment of VTS Personnel IALA Guideline G1167 VTS Management Edition 1.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1167:ed1.0 P 10
<doc_end>
