<doc_start>
issues and consideration to specific details should be given, as in chapter 3, in order to avoid unintended action, which may impair the VTS services.
This may vary, depending on the country and legislation applicable.
In addition to the given possible stakeholders as at annex A, the VTS provider may become involved, if not already, in the exchange of traffic related information with state, provincial or local government, and associated agencies or organizations, for purposes less familiar to the maritime domain; such as monitoring emissions from shipping, securing vital supply chains for society and assessing the risks associated with maritime transport of dangerous or polluting cargo close to coastal or port communities.
Examples of possible stakeholders are described in annex A.

6. LEGAL ASPECTS AND CONSTRAINTS IALA Guideline G1086 Global Sharing of Maritime Data and Information [1] already provides valuable guidance on legal aspects.
Actually, there is a range of potential legal aspects and constraints that could affect the merit of and ability to use VTS information for allied and other services.
The nature of these will vary between different countries and has to be taken into consideration.
Further considerations in this respect are provided at annex D.

7. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) at http://www.iala-aism.org/wiki/dictionary and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.
IALA Guideline G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1102:ed1.1 4) P 6 
8. ABBREVIATIONS ATA Actual Time of Arrival ATD Actual Time of Departure CEFACT Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business (UN) ETA Estimated Time of Arrival ETD Estimated Time of Departure IMO International Maritime Organization ISPS International Ship and Port facility Security Code MAS Maritime Assistance Service MRCC Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre PFSP Port Facility Security Plan PSC Port State Control RSO Recognized Security Organization SOLAS International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea UN United Nations VTS Vessel traffic service or vessel traffic services (dependent on context).

9. REFERENCES IALA.
Guideline G1086 Global Sharing of Maritime Data & Information IALA.
Guideline G1141 Operational Procedures for Delivering a VTS IALA.
Guideline G1018 Risk Management IALA.
Guideline G1046 Response plan for the marking of new wrecks IALA Guideline G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1102:ed1.1 ® P 7 ANNEX A Port Administration / Harbour Master Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre (MRCC) Port State Control (PSC) Environmental Agency Coastguard Adjacent VTS Immigration / Border Control Police Recognized Security Organization (RSO / ISPS) Navy Maritime Pilot Organization / Maritime Pilots Health Authorities / Medical Assistance Ship Owners / Agents Terminal Operators Tugboat Companies Boatmen / Linesmen Inspection Customs Stevedores EXAMPLES OF POSSIBLE STAKEHOLDERS Port Service Providers (e.g., bunker/water providers, surveyors, etc.) Ship Reporting Agencies Cargo Treatment / Processing Research Institutes Maritime Assistance Service (MAS) IALA Guideline G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1102:ed1.1 ® P 8 ANNEX B POSSIBLE INTERACTION BETWEEN A VTS AND ALLIED OR OTHER SERVICES B.1. SECURITY Through routine VTS operations and interaction with maritime traffic, VTS personnel are aware of the situation and circumstances in the VTS area and may be in a position to detect and report events out of the ordinary.
Though much has been written about Maritime Security in all relevant documents, there is no existing definition.
SOLAS Chapter XI only provides a definition on Security Incident: 'Security incident means any suspicious act or circumstance threatening the security of a ship, including a mobile offshore drilling unit and a high-speed craft, or of a port facility or of any ship/port interface or any ship-to-ship activity.' A VTS may assist security assessments through: 
• VTS in-depth knowledge of coastal, port and inland waterway infrastructure and its critical and vulnerable locations.

• VTS real-time knowledge of vessel activity, including scheduled movements, vessel locations and intentions.
VTS-capability to interact with law enforcement authorities.

• VTS in-depth knowledge of regular port operations, including vessel routes and ship-port interface activities.
The VTS maintains regular and continuous communications with vessels in case a vessel is denied access to a port or restricted area for security reasons.
The VTS may determine a safe anchorage, holding area or designated / alternative route.
The VTS may communicate this information to the vessel and to the appropriate security authority, and monitor the vessel’s status while anchored or in the holding area, or its progress and compliance to the designated route.
B.2. SAFETY AND PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT Prevention of harm to vessels, waterways and infrastructure will contribute to the safety of personnel, vessels, cargo, and to the protection of the marine environment and of investments in
<doc_end>
