<doc_start>
the marine environment, it may be easier to provide information to organizations undertaking similar or complementary work such as marine parks and fisheries management.
Another issue in some countries may be whether the eventual use of the transferred information is consistent with the purpose for which it was originally collected.
Clearly describing and specifying the purpose for which the data is collected in the first place from the outset may solve this issue.
Transfer and sharing of data & information, particularly between government agencies, should be based upon an agreement, memorandum of understanding or similar instrument between the VTS provider and the organization requiring the data.
It is also recommended that VTS providers develop clear protocols and procedures so that data transfer is implemented and maintained consistently and correctly.
The type and format of information supplied by the VTS provider may influence the extent of its distribution.
Aggregated information on shipping movement trends may be more readily and widely distributed than information that identifies individual vessels.
In many countries, specific legal instruments may override other general policies.
Examples of such instruments include search warrants and court orders.
Other factors that may influence the interaction include but are not limited to: 
• National laws and policies on the reuse of public data.

• Data storage regulations.

• Legal investigation protection.

• Commercial sensitivity.
Where VTS information may need to be used for evidence purposes, VTS providers should consider data collection and storage protocols that will safeguard the information & data’s security and handling continuity to protect the information & data’s admissibility as evidence in court.
If more than one agency or country contributes to the collection of information supplied to a VTS provider, the question of data ownership and transfer policy may need to be jointly resolved.
All VTS providers should also consider the issue of protocols for any subsequent transfer of information from the recipient organization to third parties.
IALA Guideline G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1102:ed1.1 ) P 14
<doc_end>
