<doc_start>
of IMO Resolution A.949(23) Guidelines on Places of Refuge for Ships in Need of Assistance.
C.5. MEDICAL ASSISTANCE Procedures for medical assistance may be established.
Actions may include: 
• Inform MRCC.
Inform coastal radio station.

• Consider special manoeuvring requirements.
IALA Guideline G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1102:ed1.1 ® P 11 C.6. VESSEL NOT UNDER COMMAND (NUC) Procedures in the event of a 'vessel not under command' may be established.
Actions may include: Promulgate information concerning incident to vessels in the VTS area.
Obtain detailed information about on board situation.
Maintain communication with vessel.
Assess vessel’s proximity to danger (danger to vessel itself and other traffic).
Advise the officer of the watch accordingly.
Activate tugs and other support units if appropriate.
C.7. SECURITY INCIDENT Procedures in the event of a security incident may be established.
Procedures may reflect any involvement of the VTS with the PFSP (Port Facility Security Plan) as per the International Ship and Port facility Security Code (ISPS).
C.8. PROTEST ACTION Procedures may be established to respond to protest action against a vessel transiting the VTS area.
Actions may include: 
• Alert responsible authority.
Act on local call-out procedures, including VTS manager.
Promulgate information concerning the protest action to vessels in the VTS area.
Throughout any protest action, to ensure the safety of ships and protestors.
C.9. NATURAL DISASTER Natural disaster recovery procedures may be established to respond to situations such as earthquake, tsunami, tidal wave, fire, and exceptional weather conditions.
Actions may include: Promulgate information to vessels in the VTS area.

• Act on local call-out procedures.

• Inform MRCC.
C.10. COASTAL ACCIDENTS Coastal accident procedures with allied and other services should be established to deal with accidents involving swimmers or divers reported directly to the VTS by witnesses.
Actions may include: 
• Inform MRCC.

• Inform relevant competent services.
C.11. MARINE EVENTS The coordination of planned marine events with respect to the preservation of marine safety and continuity of traffic flows, may require substantial effort from a VTS, in co-operation with: 
• the organizers of the event; and IALA Guideline G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1102:ed1.1 ® P 12 allied and other services, including those engaged with the public safety and order.
A VTS may also become involved in: 
• The preparation of such an event.
Timely provision of information to shipping and interests associated.

• Guidance of passing maritime traffic and to specific activities of such event.
C.12. RISK ASSESSMENT AND INCIDENT CLASSIFICATION Correct classification of an incident is vital at the earliest possible stage, to ensure that an appropriate level of response and interaction with relevant allied services are initiated.
The numerous factors affecting the severity, complexity and duration of an incident must be thoroughly assessed.
Incidents are to be classified only by authorized and qualified persons.
Further guidance on risk assessment and incident classification can be found in IALA Guideline G1018 Risk Management [3] and in IALA Guideline G1046 Response plan for the marking of new wrecks [4].
IALA Guideline G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1102:ed1.1 ® P 13 ANNEX D FURTHER LEGAL AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS VTS providers should also consider the purpose of any re-use of VTS information and how that influences the form and time in which information may be provided.
For example, information to alert or assist search and rescue operations would generally be required freely and urgently.
Other uses, such as compiling data on past shipping trends, could be provided at a later time, perhaps affording sufficient time for a formal written application.
In many cases, the high level legislation under which the VTS operates may determine how data and information may be re-used.
If a VTS provider is part of an agency whose objectives include safety at sea, security and protection of the marine environment, it may be easier to provide information to organizations undertaking similar or complementary work such as marine parks and fisheries management.
Another issue in some countries may be whether the eventual use of the transferred information is consistent with the purpose for which it was originally collected.
Clearly describing and specifying the purpose for which the data is collected in the first place from the outset may solve this issue.
Transfer and sharing of data & information, particularly between government agencies, should be based upon an agreement, memorandum of understanding or similar instrument between the VTS provider and the organization requiring the data.
It is also recommended that VTS providers develop clear protocols and procedures so that data transfer is implemented and maintained consistently and correctly.
The type and format of information supplied by the VTS provider may influence the extent of its distribution.
Aggregated information on shipping movement trends may be more readily and widely distributed
<doc_end>
