<doc_start>
a VTS Edition 3.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1150:ed3.1 P 7 PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTING The implementation and operation of a VTS to improve the safety and efficiency of navigation, safety of life at sea and the protection of the marine environment is a significant investment.
Careful planning should be undertaken to ensure a VTS is implemented effectively, achieves its objectives and is sufficiently resourced and funded on an ongoing basis.
When planning and implementing a VTS, a project management approach is recommended to ensure the major deliverables, assumptions and constraints are clearly documented.
This will assist in defining the scope of the VTS, its goals and objectives that need to be met.
Project management is considered as a discipline with the purpose to achieve specific goals and objectives by planning, organizing, motivating, and controlling resources.

• Relevant international guidance prepared and published by appropriate international organizations regarding project management should be considered, or where there are national requirements for project management, these should be used.
ISO 21500, Guidance on Project Management [9] is an international standard issued by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
In summary, the standard: 
• Provides high-level description of concepts and processes that are considered to form good practice in project management.

• Can be used by any type of organization, including public, private or community organizations, and for any type of project, irrespective of complexity, size, or duration.
Project management is undertaken in phases in order to improve control and quality.
At the end of each phase, a review is typically conducted on the deliverables as well as on the performance of the project team.
This helps the team ascertain whether the project proceeds to the next phase or undergoes revision.
This section provides an overview of the five project management phases and the key areas for consideration as they relate to VTS: 
1. Initiating - This marks the beginning of the project.
The goal of this phase is to define the project at a broad level and develop a business case.

2. Planning - During this phase, the scope and goals of the project are defined, and a project management plan is developed.
It involves identifying the cost, quality, available resources, and a realistic timetable.
Implementing - This is the phase where deliverables are developed and completed.

4. Controlling – This phase is invariably carried out simultaneously with phase 3 (Implementing), thereby ensuring that project objectives and deliverables are met.
This phase is about measuring project progression and performance and ensuring that everything happening aligns with the project management plan.

5. Closing - The closing processes are used to formally establish that the project phase or project is finished.
Where possible, VTS personnel should be engaged to ensure that their experience is taken into account and they have the opportunity to input into the process.
This will also provide the VTS personnel with a sense of “ownership” of the project deliverables.
5.1. PHASE 1: INITIATING The initiation phase is the beginning of the project.
In this phase, the idea for the project is explored and elaborated.
The goal of this phase is to define the proposed implementation of a VTS at a broad level and its feasibility to address the issues and problems associated with the volume of traffic and degree of risk in the waterway.
This is usually undertaken using: IALA Guideline G1150 Establishing, Planning and Implementing a VTS Edition 3.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1150:ed3.1 P 8 
• Business Case - This document identifies the need for a VTS.
In summary, it provides justification for implementing a VTS, including evaluation of the benefits, cost and risk of alternative options and provides a rationale for the preferred solution.

• Feasibility study – The purpose of a feasibility study is to establish whether a VTS is a viable solution to address the issue or problem.
The following areas may be considered: 
• Risk – Identifying and assessing the hazards associated with the volume of traffic and degree of risk in the waterway.

• Operational feasibility - Does implementing a VTS meet the needs of the entity by solving problems and/or taking advantage of identified opportunities?

• Legality - What are the legal requirements to implement a VTS and can these requirements be met?

• Technical capability - Does the entity have the technical capabilities and resources to undertake implementing a VTS?

• Budget - Does the entity have the financial resources available, and is the cost/benefit analysis sufficient to justify implementing a VTS?
Time - Can a VTS be implemented in a reasonable timeline?
To support this phase a process of comprehensive information gathering, and analysis is inevitably involved.
This will enable relevant issues and problems in the maritime area to be identified, assessed, defined, and analyzed.
Possible issues and problems relating to ship traffic include: Interaction of maritime traffic Volume and
<doc_end>
