<doc_start>
passive traffic management measures may adequately address the issues and problems identified.
Examples of possible passive traffic management measures are provided in annex B.
Alternatively, it may be determined that a VTS should be implemented, possibly in conjunction with additional or enhanced passive traffic management measures.
5.2. PHASE 2: PLANNING In the planning phase, competent authorities should ensure: 
• They are conversant with all IALA standards, recommendations, guidelines and model courses specifically related to the implementation and operation of a VTS.

• They can demonstrate compliance with all the normative provisions of these standards (as explained in Section 4.3).
Once the project is approved to move forward based on the outcomes from Phase 1, the planning phase commences.
This phase is key to successful delivery and focuses on developing a roadmap for everyone to follow.
Information collated in Phase 1 as part of preparing documents such as a business case and feasibility study will provide input to the planning phase.
This includes the preparation of key documents associated with the planning phase such as: 
• Project plan - Identifies the project timeline, including the phases of the project, the tasks to be performed, and possible constraints.
Financial budgets should be estimated, resources and consideration given to quality deliverables.

• Functional requirements - The functional requirements address the issues and problems identified in phase 
1. Typically, functional requirements specify a behaviour or function the VTS is to accomplish.
Examples of common functional requirements include: “The VTS shall have the capability to display a ‘real time’ common traffic image supporting multiple target feeds (including AIS, Radar, Satellite AIS and CCTV)” IALA Guideline G1150 Establishing, Planning and Implementing a VTS Edition 3.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1150:ed3.1 @ P 10 and “The VTS shall have the capability to interact with shipping via VHF voice communications throughout the VTS area”.
The contents of annexes A and B should be considered when defining functional requirements.

• Risk plan - identifies the anticipated risks and issues that may cause potential quality roadblocks to the project.
This is important in the planning phase to mitigate those risks where possible in order to maintain the project’s quality and schedule.

• Communications plan - Project stakeholders should be identified, and consideration given to establishing the appropriate level of communication with stakeholders relative to their influence and interest in the project.
This assists with gathering critical input, planning activities, securing resources needed, building trust, and ultimately gaining the buy-in required.

• Procurement plan - Identifies the purchasing requirements to meet the needs of the project.
The plan should include objectives and specific protocols for method of procurement to meet the needs of the proposed VTS.

• Acceptance plan – Identifies the tasks that need to be completed to implement a VTS and the criteria that must be met before the VTS is declared operational.
5.3. PHASE 3: IMPLEMENTING This phase turns the project plan into action by implementing the requirements and tasks described in all of the plans.
Particular attention and constant monitoring should be paid to quality of deliverables, risks and issues, schedule, costs, budget and overall project status.
Successful implementation of the project is greatly influenced by: the quality of the project documents prepared in Phase 2 (Planning); and 
• communication with team members, stakeholders, and upper management with regular updates at all levels.
5.4. PHASE 4: CONTROLLING Project monitoring and controlling activities contribute to keeping the project on track by ensuring that the project remains within scope, on time and on budget so that the project proceeds with minimal risk.
This process involves comparing actual performance with planned performance and taking corrective action to achieve the desired outcome where there are significant deviations.
Unlike the other phases, monitoring and controlling should be continuously performed throughout the life of the project.
5.5. PHASE 5: CLOSING In the closing phase, the final deliverables of implementing the VTS have been met and the VTS should be declared operational.
Project resources can be released, and the success of the project should be measured including evaluating what did and did not work well with the project.
IALA Guideline G1150 Establishing, Planning and Implementing a VTS Edition 3.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1150:ed3.1 P 11 POST IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION To achieve the purposes for which it was implemented, a VTS needs to be effective and routinely evaluated to ensure that the operational objectives are being met, the technical and operational performance is acceptable, and the issues identified and defined in determining the need for the VTS have been either alleviated or at least reduced to an acceptable level.
IALA Guideline G1101 - Auditing and Assessing a VTS provides guidance for competent authorities and VTS providers to meet their obligations under SOLAS for the establishment and operation of a VTS.
In particular, it provides the framework for auditing and assessing a VTS and
<doc_end>
