<doc_start>
regions.
' e-Navigation: A vision and its Practical Implementation', Dr.
Andy Norris, (IALA eNAV11/11/4).
IALA Guideline G1105 Shore-side Portrayal Ensuring Harmonization with e-Navigation Related Information Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1105:ed2.0 7) P 7 3 Innovative or future applications – New innovations and systems in development, for example during test bed execution, may provide additional information not mandated but useful for the development of IALA related navigation applications.
BASIC GUIDANCE ON PORTRAYAL 5.1. SIX BASIC WAYS There are six (6) basic ways to visually portray any type of IALA related navigation information.
1 Alpha-numeric Du wWwNnN 2 Graphical Point, line or polygon 4 Symbol 5 Geo-spatial 6 Imagery The following sections provide basic guidance with an example for each.
5.1.1. ALPHA-NUMERIC Unless there is a need to display pre-formatted text or numbers, use the best readable font taking into account Human Centred Design (HCD) as referred to in MSC-MEPC.2/Circ.12/Rev.2 and MSCMEPC.2/Circ.13 concerning Human Element Analysing Process (HEAP) as well as MSC.1-Circ.
1512 Guideline on Software Quality Assurance and Human-Centered Design for e-Navigation (July 2015).
5.1.2. GRAPHS In some situations, a time-series graph may be preferred instead of a table format.
In particular, it is a useful way to show both predicted and real-time information (e.g., water levels); as well as a useful means to indicate trends (e.g., rising or falling water levels).
5.1.3. POINT, LINE OR POLYGON This type of information is often displayed as an overlay on chart or map-related background.
An Area Notice that is transmitted via AIS Application Specific Message is one example.
5.1.4. SYMBOL Similar to the guidance stated in IMO SN.1/Circ.290, the following guiding principles apply to the display of symbols or icons: Use consistent symbology across all displays Uniqueness – only one possible meaning Non-ambiguous – ability to determine differences (i.e., distinct) Intuitively obvious – an easily recognized symbol, icon, or pattern Have a basic symbol for different categories.
Further attributes should be enhancements (not changes) to the basic symbol.
IALA Guideline G1105 Shore-side Portrayal Ensuring Harmonization with e-Navigation Related Information Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1105:ed2.0 7) P 8 IMO Resolution MSC.191 (79), Performance Standards for the presentation of navigation-related information on shipborne navigational display, 6 December 
2004. IMO MSC.1/Circ.1593, Interim guidelines for the harmonized display of navigation information received via communication equipment, 25May2018. IMO ResolutionMSC.466(101), Amendments to the Performance Standards for the presentation of navigation- related information on shipborne navigational display,14 June 2019 (Resolution MSC.191(79)) (shipborne navigational displays on the bridge of a ship for radar equipment, electronic chart display and information system (ECDIS) and integrated navigation systems (INS) installed on or after 1 January 2024, all other navigational displays on the bridge of a ship installed on or after 1 July 2025).
IEC 62288, Maritime navigation and radiocommunication equipment and systems - Presentation of navigation- related information on shipborne navigational displays - General requirements, methods of testing and required test results, Edition 2.0, July 2014. 5.1.5. GEO-SPATIAL Many types of geo-spatial information are best provided in the form of a map or chart.
The electronic chart display of an ENC in ECDIS is one example.
Another example would be a radar display with chart facilities.
5.1.6. IMAGERY This is a broad category that includes various types of images.
A still photograph of a fixed or floating AtoN is one example.
Other examples include radar or satellite imagery of sea ice weather conditions.
A video recording/replay of a past or simulated voyage is a type of dynamic imagery.
There is also increasing interest in the use of 3-D imagery.
5.2. GUIDING PRINCIPLES In order to achieve closer alignment in the portrayal of IALA related navigation information for both shipborne and shore-based users, there are several guiding principles to consider: The portrayal of information depends on the particular tasks, function, and needs of the various users on ship and ashore.
Critical and non-critical Information should be able to be categorized for the various users as required.
The portrayal of IALA information onboard ships or ashore does not have to be identical.
However, there is benefit to all users if information is displayed in a consistent and unambiguous manner.
This includes the use of standard symbology, icons, and colour schemes as to be defined in IHO GI Registry (S-100 Registry).
Displaying too much supplemental information can obscure critical information or lead to confusion.
As such users should be able to determine the volume or types of non-critical information on the display for their operating tasks and navigational decision making processes.
The portrayal should allow a user to control the system, input data and take action efficiently.
Where possible, the portrayal should indicate invalid and erroneous user input.
The portrayal should be able to display and log significant events.
The portrayal should support the playback of recorded data.
IALA Guideline G1105 Shore-side Portrayal Ensuring Harmonization with e-Navigation Related Information Edition 2.0
<doc_end>
