<doc_start>
administrative tasks in order to support the ability of the operator to focus upon critical tasks Where possible, automatic validation of data integrity should occur prior to presentation Minimal steps needed to navigate the shore-based equipment in order to retrieve the necessary information to assist in real-time decision making In a portrayal, a distinction should be made between operational alarms (related to navigation safety) and system alarms (related to technical deficiencies with the operating system).
These alarms should be configured and displayed in an appropriate manner to ensure that they are relevant to users A log of warnings and alarms should be maintained and readily accessible to the user A portrayal should not restrict the innovation of equipment manufacturers and unnecessarily interfere with the individual operational and risk-based requirements of individual shore-based Authorities A portrayal may also contain considerations regarding system failures and recovery, and if possible/appropriately describe business continuity measures A portrayal should consider local regulations considering storage and access of data A portrayal should consider measures to be taken against unauthorized access to the system A portrayal should have some flexibility to consider advanced technologies that may be adopted in the future for AtoN requirements and management (ARM), ships, VTS, etc..
IALA Guideline G1105 Shore-side Portrayal Ensuring Harmonization with e-Navigation Related Information Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1105:ed2.0 P 14 
8. DEFINITIONS Unless otherwise defined below, the definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA dictionary) and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.
Specifically, however, for this Guideline, there is benefit in using agreed terminology, in order to have a clear understanding of what various terms mean.
This is particularly important when making a distinction between such terms as data and information, as well as display, presentation and portrayal.
The relevant terms are included in Appendix 1. 
9. ABBREVIATIONS AIS Universal Shipborne Automatic Identification System ARPA Automatic Radar Plotting Aid ASM Application Specific Message AtoN Marine Aids to Navigation Circ.
Circular (IMO document) COMSAR Sub-Committee on Communications and Search and Rescue (IMO) ECDIS Electronic Chart Display and Information System ECS Electronic Chart System EPFS Electronic Position Fixing System ENC Electronic Navigation Chart GI Geospatial Information (IHO) GPS Global Positioning System HCD Human Centred Design HEAP Human Element Analysing Process HMI Human Machine Interface IEC International Electrotechnical Commission IHO International Hydrographic Organization IMO International Maritime Organization INS Integrated Navigation System ISO International Organization for Standardization MSC Maritime Safety Committee (IMO) NAV Sub-Committee on Safety-of-Navigation (IMO) SENC System Electronic Navigation Chart SN Safety of Navigation (IMO) S-52 Standard and the portrayal of colours and symbols in ECDIS (IHO) S-57 Transfer Standard for Digital Hydrographic Data (IHO) S-100 Universal Hydrographic Data Model (IHO) SOLAS International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea IALA Guideline G1105 Shore-side Portrayal Ensuring Harmonization with e-Navigation Related Information Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1105:ed2.0 P 15 VTS Vessel Traffic Services WG Working Group 
10. REFERENCES [1] IMO.
Resolution MSC.191 (79) Performance standards for the presentation of navigational related information on shipborne navigational displays.
[2] IMO.
ResolutionMSC.1/Circ.1593 Interim Guidelines for the Harmonized Display of Navigation Information Received via Communication Equipment.
[3] IMO.
Resolution MSC.466 (101) Amendments to the Performance Standards for the presentation of navigation-related information on shipborne navigational display.
[4] IMO.
Resolution MSC.Rev.232(82) Adoption of the revised performance standards for electronic chart display and information systems (ECDIS).
IMO.
Resolution MSC.192(79) Adoption of the Revised performance standards for radar equipment.
[6] IMO.
Resolution MSC.74(69), Annex 3 Recommendation on Performance Standards for An Universal Shipborne Automatic Identification System (AIS).
IMO.
Resolution MSC.252(83) Revised performance standards for integrated navigation systems (INS).
IMO.
Resolution MSC/Circ.982 Guidelines on ergonomic criteria for bridge equipment and layout.
[9] IMO.
Resolution MSC.86(70) New and amended performance standards for navigational equipment.
[10] IMO.
Resolution A.694(17) General requirements for shipborne radio equipment forming part of the global maritime distress and safety system (GMDSS) and for electronic navigational aids.
IMO.
Resolution A.823(19) Performance standards for automatic radar plotting aids (ARPAs).
[12] IMO.
Resolution A.1106(29) Revised Guidelines for the Onboard Operational Use of Shipborne Automatic Identification Systems (AIS).
[13] IMO.
MSC-MEPC.2/ Circ.12/Rev.2 Revised Guidelines for Formal Safety Assessment (FSA) for use in the IMO Rule-making Process.
[14] IMO.
MSC-MEPC.2/ Circ.13 Guidelines for the Application of the Human Element Analysing Process(HEAP) to the IMO Rule-making Process.
[15] IMO.
SN.1/Circ.243/Rev.2 Amended Guidelines for the Presentation of navigation-related symbols, terms and abbreviations.
IMO.
SN/Circ.217 Interim Guidelines for The Presentation and Display of AIS Target Information.
IMO.
SN/Circ.236 Guidance of the Application of AIS Binary Messages.
IMO.
SN.1/Circ.289 Guidance on the Use of AIS Application-Specific Messages.
[19] IMO.
SN.1/Circ.290 Guidance for the Presentation and Display Of AIS Application-Specific Messages Information.
[20]
<doc_end>
