<doc_start>
and implementation process; facilitate global coverage, consistent standards and arrangements, mutual compatibility and interoperability of equipment, systems, symbology, and operational procedures, so as to avoid potential conflicts between users; and support scalability, to facilitate use by all potential maritime users.
IALA Guideline G1105 Shore-side Portrayal Ensuring Harmonization with e-Navigation Related Information Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1105:ed2.0 P 4 2.2. BASIC PREMISE AND CAVEATS The basic, over-riding premise of this Guideline is that: Shipborne and shore-based equipment, systems and services should portray Marine Aids to Navigation (AtoN) related information to all users (both onboard and ashore) in a consistent manner.
However, there are several caveats: How information is portrayed onboard or ashore depends on the particular tasks, function, and needs of the user.
The current situation or task-at-hand can influence the amount of information necessary to make informed decisions.
The portrayal of information onboard ships or ashore does not necessarily have to be identical but should have like meaning.
Considering the similarity between ship-side and shore-based related strategies in terms of technical and equipment portrayal standards, the IMO prescriptive documents play an important role in setting the portrayal standards for shore-based navigation.
In particular, IMO Resolution MSC.466(101) The Performance Standards For The Presentation Of Navigation-Related Information On Shipborne Navigational Displays updated the performance standards for navigation-related information display in onboard navigation display on 14 June 
2019. This resolution, which addresses standards for the description of metadata (Part 4.0) and equipment (Part 5.0), has significant implications for the synchronization of standards for data and information portrayal.

3. GENERAL REFERENCES IMO and IEC have adopted several standards (i.e., references) that provide general guidance related to presentation, display or portrayal of navigation-related information.
Based on the premise that “shipborne and shore-based equipment, systems, and services should portray navigation-related information to all users (both onboard and ashore) in a consistent manner”,1 much of this guidance is relevant to the presentation, display or portrayal of navigation related information at shore-based facilities as well (e.g., at a VTS centre or port authority).
The following sections provide a brief summary of the key contents of each standard.
IMO Resolution MSC.191 (79), Performance Standards for the presentation of navigation-related information on shipborne navigational display, 6 December 
2004. The purpose of this standard is to “harmonize the requirements for the presentation of navigation-related information on the bridge of a ship to ensure that all navigational displays adopt a consistent human machine interface philosophy and implementation.” Further, it supplements and, in case of conflict, takes priority over presentation requirements of the individual performance standards.
This standard also includes the consistent use of navigational terms, abbreviations, colours and symbols, as well as other presentation characteristics.
This standard also addresses the presentation of information related to specific navigational tasks by recognising user- selected presentations in addition to presentations required by the relevant individual performance standards.
IMO Resolution MSC.1/Circ.1593 Interim guidelines for the harmonized display of navigation information received via communication equipment, 25May2018. Terms Of Reference for IALA e-Navigation Committee, Information Portrayal Working Group(WG6).
IALA Guideline G1105 Shore-side Portrayal Ensuring Harmonization with e-Navigation Related Information Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1105:ed2.0 P 5 IMO SN1/Circ.243/Rev.2, Guidelines for the presentation of Navigation-related symbols, terms and abbreviations, 14 JUNE 
2019. The purpose of these guidelines is “to provide guidance on the appropriate use of navigation-related symbols to achieve a harmonized and consistent presentation.” There are two Annexes: Annex 1 - Guidelines for the Presentation of Navigation-related Symbols; and Annex 2 - Guidelines for the Presentation of Navigation-related Terms and Abbreviations.
IMO MSC/Circ.982, Guidelines on Ergonomic Criteria for Bridge Equipment and Layout, 20 December 
2000. This guideline was developed to facilitate a successful ergonomic design of the bridge and the equipment on the bridge in order to improve the reliability and efficiency of navigation.
The Guideline contains ergonomic requirements as well as a user-centred design for a functionally-oriented bridge layout to support watch-keeping personnel in their tasks.
While these guidelines were primarily intended for shipborne equipment, much of the guidance applies to shore-based workstations as well.
IEC 60945, Maritime navigation and radiocommunication equipment and systems- General Requirements, Methods of testing and required test results, Edition 4, 2002. (Corrigendum 1 in April,2008).
This standard specifies the general requirements, methods of testing, and required test results, for shipborne radio navigation equipment and electronic navigation aids in support of IMO Resolution A.694. More specifically, it specifies minimum performance requirements for equipment that are required carriage under SOLAS 1974, Chapter V.
Key sections that pertain to the presentation, display or portrayal of navigation-related information include: Ergonomics and Human Machine Interface (HMI) Screen display and indicators Alarms and Indicators Illumination IEC 62288, Maritime navigation and radiocommunication equipment and systems - Presentation of navigation- related information on shipborne navigational displays - General requirements, methods of testing and required test results, Edition 3.0, 
2021. This standard specifies the general
<doc_end>
