<doc_start>
4.2. AMPLIFICATION
Virtual AtoN can be used to inform the mariner about dangers to navigation as well as safe waterways, areas in which extra caution may be necessary and areas to be avoided.
4.2. AMPLIFICATION
They may be used to represent a line, area, position or other forms that may be displayed graphically.
The AIS ASM Area Notice message may replace or supplement this need for Virtual AtoN to delineate a graphical shape in the future.
4.2. AMPLIFICATION
The information, including geographic position, carried by Virtual AtoN may be fixed or may change over time (dynamic), depending on the intended purpose.
A dynamic position may relate to the changing nature of a mobile object or an evolving situation.
Virtual AIS AtoN used as Mobile AtoN for marking a moving hazard have to meet stringent refresh rates.
Regular monitoring of such an evolving situation is necessary to ensure that the Virtual AIS AtoN position and information stay relevant.
4.2. AMPLIFICATION
Virtual AtoN should be used primarily as temporary deployments, where there is a time critical consideration.
They may also be used in a permanent context, where permanent physical AtoN cannot be established or maintained.
However, they are intended as an enhancement, not as a replacement for physical AtoN.
Historically, as stated in the IMO Policy on use of AIS AtoN, permanent usage was restricted.
National competent authorities, after gaining better understanding and experience in the use of AIS AtoN, have identified applications where use of permanent Virtual AIS AtoN are beneficial for mariners and, therefore, deployed.
4.2. AMPLIFICATION
These two applications of Virtual AtoN, temporary and permanent, should be reflected in Maritime Safety Information (MSI).
The IHO recommends that any temporary status which continues for more than six months should be charted accordingly and treated as permanent.
This should be shown on all relevant nautical paper charts, Electronic Navigational Charts (ENCs) and other relevant nautical publications in due course.
In some countries, permanent status is sub-categorized into annual and seasonal periods.
4.2. AMPLIFICATION
Virtual is one of the three types of AIS AtoN that can be used for marking.
Physical (Real) and Synthetic (Predicted and Monitored) are the other two types.
More information on the three types of AIS AtoN is available in other IALA documentation, such as Recommendation R0126 Use of the AIS in Marine Aids to Navigation Service (A-126) [22].

5. APPLICATION OF VIRTUAL ATON
Virtual AtoN can provide early notification to the mariner of urgent, temporary or dynamic information.
Virtual AtoN should not, in general, be considered as a replacement for other forms of MSI but can provide a valuable supplementary delivery mechanism, enabling an automated graphical display of MSI otherwise only available in textual form.
Specific applications are described in Annex A of this Guideline.
<doc_end>
