<doc_start>
1. INTRODUCTION
IALA recognizes that there are various tools available for use by Marine Aids to Navigation (AtoN) competent authorities to improve and enhance services to mariners.
Among these are visual, radio and AIS AtoN, including the Virtual AtoN.

1. INTRODUCTION
This document offers guidance on the provision of Virtual AtoN.

2. SCOPE
This document provides guidance on the limitations and benefits of Virtual AtoN, criteria for use, notification process, display, application and delivery methods, applicable standards and guidelines, availability and integrity and legal and liability issues.

2. SCOPE
This document is a general guide only and is not intended to specify in detail when or how to deploy a Virtual AtoN.
Appropriate sources (see References) should be consulted for additional relevant information.

2. SCOPE
The concept of Virtual AtoN has its roots in AIS, but in the future other means of transmission and presentation may evolve.
References to AIS in this document should not be construed as limiting Virtual AtoN to that system.
Reference documents are the latest from the date of issue of this Guideline.
Readers have to consider that some will be amended or revoked, and care should be taken to follow up with the most up to date information.

3. PURPOSE
The purpose of this Guideline is to inform AtoN competent authorities, mariners and equipment manufacturers of the value and uses of Virtual AtoN.
It will assist competent authorities in determining the appropriate uses for Virtual AtoN and provide organizations with the means to establish and operate them.
This Guideline will assist shipmasters, pilots, mariners, private AtoN owners and shore-based competent authorities in realizing the benefits, limitations and the inherent risks involved when using Virtual AtoN as a means of verifying their position and determining a safe course to steer or avoiding dangers.
This Guideline will assist marine electronics equipment manufacturers in designing and upgrading shipborne navigational display systems.
Finally, maritime training institutes may also wish to avail themselves of the information contained herein to assist with the development of syllabi better equipped to prepare seafarers to take advantage of this emerging technology.
This may take the form of e-Navigation Guidelines provided by National competent authorities.
4.1. DEFINITION
A Virtual AtoN does not physically exist but is a digital information object (symbol and text information) promulgated by an authorized service provider that may be presented on navigational systems.
This is used to mark an object other than an existing AtoN or a non-object, such as a reference point in the water or on land.
4.2. AMPLIFICATION
Virtual AtoN should only be used after approval by a national competent authority, as stipulated in IALA Guideline G1084 Authorisation of AIS AtoN [25].
4.2. AMPLIFICATION
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1

4.2. AMPLIFICATION

4.2. AMPLIFICATION
P 5
<doc_end>
