<doc_start>
on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers TONNAGE International Convention on tonnage measurement of ships VTS Vessel traffic service or vessel traffic services (dependent on context) 
8. REFERENCES IMO.
International Convention for the Safety of Life At Sea IMO.
Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services IMO.
Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) IMO.
Circular Letter No.
3425 Auditor's Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) IMO.
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme IALA.
Guideline G1101 Auditing and Assessing a VTS [7] IALA.
VTS Manual IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 7 WN ANNEX A GUIDANCE FOR AUDIT PREPARATION This section provides a summary of the IMSAS requirements relating to SOLAS Chapter V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 12 and provides guidance for preparing to undertake an audit to assess how effectively the Contracting Government and competent authority administers and implements its obligations under this Regulation.
Title/Topic IMO References Requirements Possible Audit Questions Remarks Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code).
Requirement of III Code para.
3.0 and 3.1. In order to meet the objective of this Code, a State is recommended to: Develop an overall strategy to ensure that its international obligations and responsibilities as a flag, port and coastal State are met.
Is a strategy in place to ensure that international obligations and responsibilities as a flag, Requirement of III Code port and coastal State are met?
Circular Letter No.
3425 - Is the implementation and Part 1 Common Areas Strategy Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of An overall strategy exists to ensure that international obligations and responsibilities as a flag, port and coastal State are met.
operation of VTS included in this strategy?
If Yes, describe the strategies developed to ensure Areas Related to the III Code international obligations and (Verification Index).
responsibilities are met with Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire No.

9. Please provide the overall maritime policies and strategy of your State to implement the applicable IMO instruments and also how this is communicated to all concerned.
regards to SOLAS Chapter V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 
12. Part 1 Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation In order to meet the objective of this Code, a State is recommended to: What methodology has been established to monitor and Common Areas Code (III Code) establish a methodology to monitor and assess that the strategy ensures Strategy Requirement of III Code para.
assess that the strategy ensures effective effective implementation and 3.0 and 3.2. implementation and enforcement of enforcement of SOLAS Chapter No 1 2 IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 8 No Title/Topic IMO References Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire.
Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) Requirement of III Code para.
3.0 and 3.3. Part 1 3 Common Areas Requirement of III Code Strategy Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Requirements relevant inter-national mandatory instruments.
Methodology established to monitor and assess that the strategy ensures effective implementation and enforcement of relevant international mandatory instruments.
See Requirements under No.
1 In order to meet the objective of this Code, a State is recommended to: continuously review the strategy to achieve, maintain and improve the overall organizational performance and capability as a flag, port and coastal State.
Continuous review of the strategy undertaken to achieve, maintain and improve the overall organizational performance and capability as a flag, port and coastal State.
Possible Audit Questions V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 12?
What processes have been established to continuously review the strategy to achieve, maintain and improve the overall organizational performance and capability with regards to VTS under SOLAS Chapter V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 12?
Remarks IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 9 Title/Topic IMO References Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire.
Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code).
Requirement of III Code para.

4. Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Part 1 Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Common Areas General Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) Appendix 2 – Assessment of
<doc_end>
