<doc_start>
FOR VESSEL TRAFFIC SERVICES 4.1.4. This Resolution describes the principles and general provisions for the operation of a VTS and participating vessels.
Contracting Governments should take account of these guidelines when planning, implementing and operating vessel traffic services.
4.2. IALA IALA has developed a suite of documents to assist governments, competent authorities and VTS providers to implement and deliver a VTS in a manner consistent with IMO Resolution A.1158(32).
These documents consist of numerous recommendations, guidelines and model courses etc.
For the latest document editions refer to IALA web page http://www.iala-aism.org/ under “publications”, where these can be freely downloaded.

5. PREPARING FOR AN IMSAS AUDIT – VESSEL TRAFFIC SERVICES IMSAS covers a broad range of maritime safety and prevention of pollution issues which are reflected in SOLAS, MARPOL, TONNAGE, Load Line, STCW and COLREGs.
A VTS is an important element of the audit scheme, which should be carefully prepared.
To assist with planning and preparation for an audit, annexes A and B provide guidance and check lists for audit preparations.
Furthermore, the following issues should be considered: 
• Member State’s policy and legal frameworks should be explained as fully as possible.

• Member State’s internal stakeholder arrangements should be described, in particular the sectional and governance arrangements for the responsibilities of a Member State’s VTS.
Wherever possible, clarification of any special organizational arrangements should be fully detailed.

• A designated single point of contact is required for the Member State.
It may also be necessary to establish a single point of contact for other internal stakeholders that have delegated VTS responsibilities.
It might also be useful to establish a hierarchy of responsibilities.
To assist the audit process, the use of organizational diagrams and flow charts should be considered.

• A mechanism of coordination should be implemented with other organizations / agencies / Federal Governments etc.
related to VTS in order to allow the Member State to undergo the audit.

• Member States may consider adopting a programme or project management approach to the audit process.
This will assist with the setting of timetables and the consideration of budget and resources.

• Noting that a maximum period of two months is permitted for the completion of the pre-audit questionnaire from the time the audit is officially launched, Member States should not underestimate the time and effort that may be required to complete the questionnaire.

• The working language should be agreed between the Member State and IMO audit team.
For some Member States the translation of sections of primary legislation pertaining to VTS responsibility, delivery and monitoring may be necessary.
In addition, to assist with coordination of the audit, it may also be necessary to use hard copy documentation.
IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 6 3 It may be useful when preparing the IMO audit, to proceed with an internal pre-audit.
IALA Guideline G1101 Auditing and Assessing a VTS [6] provides a checklist which may assist as a tool to assess and monitor the delivery of a VTS with regards to international obligations, the IALA recommendations, guidelines and VTS Manual [7].

6. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) at http://www.iala-aism.org/wiki/dictionary and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.

7. ABBREVIATIONS COLREGs Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea III Code IMO Instruments Implementation Code IMO International Maritime Organization IMSAS IMO Member State Audit Scheme Load Line International Convention on Load Lines (LL) MARPOL International Convention for the prevention of pollution from ships SOLAS International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea STCW International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers TONNAGE International Convention on tonnage measurement of ships VTS Vessel traffic service or vessel traffic services (dependent on context) 
8. REFERENCES IMO.
International Convention for the Safety of Life At Sea IMO.
Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services IMO.
Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) IMO.
Circular Letter No.
3425 Auditor's Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) IMO.
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme IALA.
Guideline G1101 Auditing and Assessing a VTS [7] IALA.
VTS Manual IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 7 WN ANNEX A GUIDANCE FOR AUDIT PREPARATION This section provides a summary of the IMSAS requirements relating to SOLAS Chapter V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 12 and provides guidance for preparing to undertake an audit to assess how effectively the Contracting Government and competent authority administers and
<doc_end>
