<doc_start>
Code para.

49. Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Part 3 Member State Audit Scheme Coastal States (IMSAS).
Enforcement Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire No.

14. Requirements Coastal States should take all necessary measures to ensure their observance of international rules when exercising their rights and fulfilling their obligations.
All necessary measures taken to ensure observance of international rules when exercising the rights and fulfilling the obligations as a coastal State.
Possible Audit Questions Remarks No 17 IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 23 No 18 Title/Topic IMO References Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) Requirement of III Code para.

50. Part 3 Requirement of III Code Coastal States Enforcement Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire Para.

26. Requirements A coastal State should consider, develop and implement a control and monitoring programme, as appropriate, in order to: .1 provide for the allocation of statistical data so that trend analyses can be conducted to identify problem areas; .2 establish mechanisms for timely response to pollution incidents in its waters; and .3 co-operate with flag States and/or port States, as appropriate, in investigations of maritime casualties.
Control and monitoring programme considered, developed and implemented.
Statistical data collected and trend analyses conducted.
Co-operation with flag States and/or port States in investigation of maritime casualties.
Please describe how your State fulfils the requirements of the III Code for: considering, developing and implementing a control and monitoring programme; co-operating with other flag and/or coastal States for the investigation of maritime casualties.
Possible Audit Questions Describe the measures employed to enforce VTS legislation.
Describe the measures taken to ensure compliance with VTS by ships entitled to fly your flag.
(Flag State responsibility.) Describe the measures taken to ensure compliance with VTS by foreign flag ships within VTS areas.
Is there a compliance and enforcement plan for VTS?
Remarks IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 24 Title/Topic IMO References Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) Requirement of III Code para.

51. Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Part 3 Coastal States Evaluation and review Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire Para.

27. Requirements A coastal State should periodically evaluate its performance in respect of exercising its rights and meeting its obligations under the applicable international instruments.
Performance periodically evaluated in respect of exercising its rights and meeting its obligations under the applicable international instruments.
Please explain how your State evaluates its performance as a coastal State, e.g., exercises to test counter-pollution measures, rescue of distressed persons, etc.
Possible Audit Questions Describe the measures taken to evaluate effectiveness of a VTS (e.g., vessel tracking analysis, incident analysis, equipment service availability, planning and inspection).
Describe the measures, if any, taken to evaluate the effectiveness in implementing SOLAS regulations V/12. Does the State use a recognized quality management system, e.g., ISO 9001:2000, for VTS?
How does this contribute to the effectiveness in VTS delivery?
Remarks No 19 IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 25 ANNEX B CHECKLIST FOR AUDITORS – VESSEL TRAFFIC SERVICES (VTS) ELEMENTS B.1. INTRODUCTION This section is an extract from Annex 3 Part 2 of IMO Circular No.
3425 Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Legislation What national Administration is responsible for VTS?
Under what law(s) does each Administration act?
Organization How is each Administration organized?
To what other bodies, if any, has responsibility for VTS been delegated?
Has this delegation been formally established and documented?
Resources What is the mechanism for establishing resource requirements (Equipment/Human)?
What are the funding mechanisms for the Administration?
What is the mechanism for ensuring competence of personnel?
International recommendations/regulations What national legislation is in place to support provision of, and compliance with VTS systems?
What international recommendations and guidelines in respect of VTS are reflected in the Administration's policies and procedures?
IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 26
<doc_end>
