<doc_start>
2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire No.

9. Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) Requirement of III Code para.

10. Part 1 8 Common Areas Records Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Requirements Please provide the overall maritime policies and strategy of your State to implement the applicable IMO instruments and also how this is communicated to all concerned.
Records, as appropriate, should be established and maintained to provide evidence of conformity to requirements and of the effective operation of the State.
Records should remain legible, readily identifiable and retrievable.
A documented procedure should be established to define the controls needed for the identification, storage, protection, retrieval, retention time and disposition of records.
Records established and maintained.
Records are legible, readily identifiable and retrievable.
Documented procedure defining controls on identification, storage, protection, retrieval, retention time and disposition of records.
Please describe which records are retained and for what period.
Possible Audit Questions Provide references to relevant policies/ standards with respect to record keeping.
Remarks IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 12 No Title/Topic IMO References Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire No.

13. Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Part 1 Instruments Implementation 9 Common Areas Code (III Code).
Improvement Requirement of III Code para.

11. Requirements States should continually improve the adequacy of the measures which are taken to give effect to those conventions and protocols which they have accepted.
Improvement should be made through rigorous and effective application and enforcement of national legislation, as appropriate, and monitoring of compliance.
Possible Audit Questions Please describe how your State: − stimulates a culture which provides for improvement of performance in relevant maritime activities; − - identifies and eliminates the root causes of any non- conformities; and Remarks IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 13 No Title/Topic IMO References Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire No.
14. 10 Part 1 Common Areas Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) Requirements Demonstrates continual improvement of measures giving effect to conventions and protocols accepted.
Improvement made through rigorous and effective application and enforcement of national legislation, as appropriate, and monitoring of compliance.
A culture exists providing opportunities to people for improvement of performance in maritime safety and environmental protection activities.
Action taken to identify and eliminate causes of any non-conformities in order to prevent recurrence.
Non-conformities reviewed and analysed.
Implementation of necessary corrective actions monitored.
Reviews of corrective actions taken.
Please describe how your State: stimulates a culture which provides for improvement of performance in relevant maritime activities; identifies and eliminates the root causes of any non-conformities; and anticipates potential non-conformities in order to prevent their occurrence.
The State should stimulate a culture which provides opportunities for improvement of performance in Possible Audit Questions − - anticipates potential non- conformities in order prevent their occurrence.
to Remarks IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 14 No Title/Topic IMO References Improvement Requirement of III Code para.

12. Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index) Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire No.

14. Requirements maritime safety and environmental protection activities, which may include, inter alia: .1 continual training programmes relating to safety and pollution prevention; .2 regional and national drills on safety and pollution prevention, which engage a broad spectrum of maritime- related national, regional and international organizations, companies and seafarers; and .3 using reward and incentive mechanisms for shipping companies and seafarers regarding improving safety and pollution prevention.
See Requirements under No.

9. See Requirements under No.

9. Possible Audit Questions Remarks IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 15 No Title/Topic IMO References Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) Requirement of III Code para.

13. Part 1 Requirement of III Code 11 Common Areas Improvement Circular
<doc_end>
