<doc_start>
performance and capability as a flag, port and coastal State.
Continuous review of the strategy undertaken to achieve, maintain and improve the overall organizational performance and capability as a flag, port and coastal State.
Possible Audit Questions V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 12?
What processes have been established to continuously review the strategy to achieve, maintain and improve the overall organizational performance and capability with regards to VTS under SOLAS Chapter V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 12?
Remarks IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 9 Title/Topic IMO References Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire.
Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code).
Requirement of III Code para.

4. Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Part 1 Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Common Areas General Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire No.

10. Requirements See Requirements under No.
1 Under the general provisions of treaty law and of IMO conventions, States should be responsible for promulgating laws and regulations and for taking all other steps which may be necessary to give those instruments full and complete effect so as to ensure safety of life at sea and protection of the marine environment.
Means in place to ensure compliance with relevant international rules and regulations in respect of maritime safety and protection of the marine environment.
National legislation exist to give effect to the provisions of relevant IMO instruments.
Please describe how your State: .1 develops and promulgates legislation and takes all other steps to give the applicable IMO instruments full and complete effect (include a flow chart); .2 incorporates amendments to IMO instruments into national legislation.
Possible Audit Questions Have domestic law/s and regulations been promulgated to give full and complete effect to SOLAS Chapter V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 12?
If Yes, list the law/s and regulations What administration has the contracting Government made responsible as the competent authority for VTS (refer to IMO Resolution A.1158(32)))?
Under which legislation is the competent authority for VTS established?
Does the legislation allow regulations to be made in relation to VTS?
Does this include arrangements for the competent authority to regulate: VTS providers, including authorization, certification and auditing?
VTS training organizations, including accreditation, Remarks No 4 IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 10 No Title/Topic IMO References 5 N/A Part 1 Common Areas 6 General N/A Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code).
Part 1 Requirement of III Code para.
7 Common Areas Communication of 
9. Requirement of III Code Information Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) Requirements N/A N/A The State should communicate its strategy, as referred to in paragraph 3, including information on its national legislation to all concerned.
Strategy, including information on relevant national legislation, communicated to all concerned.
Possible Audit Questions approval of model courses and auditing?
Masters of vessels to provide reports required by VTS providers and to comply with their instructions, where empowered?
List the VTS providers authorized to deliver a VTS by the competent authority.
Has responsibility for VTS been delegated to other bodies/agencies?
If yes, list the agencies/ bodies.
Has this delegation been formally established and documented?
If yes, reference the documentation.
Explain the approach taken to formally communicate the states responsibilities to authorize, certify and audit the competent authority / VTS providers.
Remarks IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1115:ed1.1 P 11 No Title/Topic IMO References Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Framework and Procedures for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme.
Appendix 2: Pre-Audit Questionnaire No.

9. Resolution A.1070 (28) IMO Instruments Implementation Code (III Code) Requirement of III Code para.

10. Part 1 8 Common Areas Records Requirement of III Code Circular Letter No.
3425 - Auditor’s Manual for the IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS).
Appendix 2 – Assessment of Areas Related to the III Code (Verification Index).
Resolution A.1067(28) Requirements Please provide the overall maritime policies and strategy of your State to implement the applicable IMO instruments and also how this is communicated to all concerned.
Records, as appropriate, should be established and maintained to provide evidence of conformity to requirements and of the effective operation of the State.
Records should remain legible, readily identifiable and retrievable.
A documented procedure should be established to define the controls needed for the identification, storage, protection, retrieval,
<doc_end>
