<doc_start>
expect that other media for information services will become available.
This would enable Virtual AtoN services to be transmitted via means other than AIS, for example: satcom /internet; WiMAX; VDES, VDE-SAT, NAVDAT, IALA maritime beacon system; cell phone data transmission protocol, etc.
In the near term, not all vessels can be expected to be able to effectively display Virtual AtoN information.
As of July 2008, SOLAS radars are required to interface to AIS and display AIS information, as in MSC Resolution 192(79) [3].
Although ECDIS is capable of displaying AIS information, it is not required to do so.
Based on current rates of navigational system upgrades, it is expected to take at least some years before a substantial percentage of the international commercial fleet will have this capability.
Changes in mandatory carriage requirements may accelerate this development for SOLAS vessels.
PPU Navigational Systems may facilitate implementation on the charting side for pilots but not on radar.
Economic benefit to the shipping industry could also provide an impetus to early adoption of this technology.
The nominal report rate of Virtual AIS AtoN broadcasts is specified in ITU-R-M.1371. However, due to the limitations in data link capacity, IALA Recommendation R0126 [22] recommends a more flexible approach to be considered, taking data link capacity and power consumption at transmitting stations into account.
In the longer term, different report rates may be implemented on different communication media, as appropriate.
A Virtual AIS AtoN should be considered lost after 15 minutes, unless updated on the shipborne navigational displays, as specified in IMO MSC.1/Circ.
1473 [9].
A lost target symbol, as depicted in IEC 62288 [31], should be shown on the AIS AtoN symbol.
This consists of two crossed solid lines centred on the target symbol.
Once acknowledged, the lost target symbol and its target symbol shall be removed from the display.
Figure 1 The lost target symbol shown over a physical AIS AtoN IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 3 P 10 The IMO e-Navigation concept includes the need to harmonize the presentation of both shipborne and shore-side safety-related information.
Consideration should be given to implementing Virtual AtoN in the harmonization process within e-Navigation for future applications.
8.2. DISPLAY 8.2.1. GENERAL The Virtual AtoN should clearly indicate its name, other relevant attributes and MSI relating to the provision of the Virtual AtoN.
The display or representation of symbols for Virtual AtoN on shipborne displays and must comply with international standards.
8.2.2. LIMITATIONS In short to medium term Virtual AtoN will not be visible on the displays of many ships and, if visible, the symbols may differ from one display to another (see section 10.2).
SeaPilot Marine Traffic Vessel Finder ly FY Source: Swedish Maritime Administration and Swedish Transport Agency Figure 2 Variation of imagery due to software and type of ECDIS equipment or mobile application The above images taken in 2018 show that the symbol of a Virtual AtoN varies depending on the software and type of ECDIS equipment or mobile application.
Manufacturers may have subsequently edited their products, however.
8.2.3. SYMBOLS IMO SN/Circ.243/Rev.2 Annex 2 [5] provides guidance on the use of navigation-related symbols on all shipborne navigational systems and equipment.
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 3 P 11 Basic shape Emergency wreck mark North cardinal mark East cardinal South cardinal West cardinal mark mark mark Port hand mark Starboard hand Isolated danger mark se) x Safe water Special mark (IALA dictionary.
topmarks) Missing *, 4 ft Me ¢ > e, le, Pa Neg Intended location of missing AtoN Figure 3 The symbology of Virtual AIS AtoN A distinction is made between Physical and Virtual AtoN.
These navigation-related symbols are not chart symbols.
In IEC 62288 (Navigation Displays) [31], which came into force in 2012, the thin dashed line diamond with crossed lines centred at the reported position of the AtoN is specified for AIS AtoN.
This symbol will be implemented as an overlay on navigational equipment (ECDIS, radar etc.) compliant with these specifications.
Generally, the symbols indicate the type of AtoN, and the attached text information indicates that the Virtual flag is active.
The MMSI numbering scheme is another way to recognize that a Virtual AIS AtoN is being broadcast, with the number 6 being displayed right after the MID: 99MID6XXX.
New symbology for AIS AtoN has been issued where the type of AtoN, identified by a topmark (purpose), has been added to the basic diamond shape.
The latest IEC 62288 [31] provides further details.
as a ‘os v .
oo ¢ s Se Nae, Ld id Emergency wreck mark North cardinal mark Figure 4 New symbology for AIS AtoN The new symbol is distinctive and shows the purpose (characteristic) of the AtoN as a topmark on the
<doc_end>
