<doc_start>
shown on the right.
8.2.5. EXPIRY AND CANCELLATION OF VIRTUAL ATON OBJECTS Some Virtual AtoN objects like the Application Specific Messages (ASM) may themselves contain a definition of their own lifetime, such as a start date and time with a duration from a few minutes up to 182 days, with the capability to cancel at any time.
When the lifetime of a Virtual AtoN object is timed out or cancelled, it should be removed from the displays of shipborne navigational systems.
Objects relying on repeated transmissions that have exceeded the nominal reporting rate but have not yet reached the timeout should clearly indicate that the information may not be current.
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 P 14 
9. NOTIFICATION Having elected to deploy Virtual AtoN, competent authorities should arrange for detailed information related to such aids to be made available to all concerned.
Competent authorities should use all available means to ensure that mariners have the necessary information concerning the presence and purpose of Virtual aids and notify their national hydrographic offices for inclusion and updates in nautical publications, including charts.
As with other aids to navigation, mariners have an obligation to report improperly or not displayed Virtual aids to navigation to the competent authority.

10. RISKS AND LIMITATIONS Virtual AtoN are now becoming visible on the displays of many ships and, when visible, the symbols may differ from one display to another.
The consequences may be confusion, lack of information for the user and undermining confidence in shipborne navigational displays and new technology.
The implementation date of the revised standard for shipborne navigational displays on the bridge of a ship for radar equipment, ECDIS and INS should be 1 January 2024 and for all other navigational displays on the bridge of a ship 1 July 
2025. It is still possible that when an AIS AtoN is reflected in S-57 and S-52, existing ECDIS will only show a question mark (?), symbolizing an unknown object.
The question mark symbol can be interrogated for further detail.
The Minimum Keyboard Display (MKD) should display AIS AtoN, including the Virtual flag, but it is known that some MKDs do not meet this requirement.
10.1. RISK MITIGATION Table 1 Potential risk mitigation measures Risk Potential mitigation Mariners should not rely solely on Virtual AtoN but cross-check with other data or information.
Complete dependence of on Virtual AtoN.
Navigation should be by visual and radar reference from fixed aids on shore or other charted landmarks and through the use of navigation systems, whenever possible.
MSI should be maintained as primary notification.
Not all mariners will receive or be able to display Virtual AtoN.
Virtual AtoN supplement MSI.
Encourage integration with navigational displays, where fitted.
Development of e-Navigation and S Mode.
Use of lines and areas (such as ASM) versus points.
Only competent authorities may approve.
Information overload Area specific display.
Development of e-Navigation.
Limited use of Virtual AtoN in any area.
Lack of user awareness or understanding.
Training IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 P 15 Clear promulgation of information.
Development of educational material.
Confusion from varying symbology.
Standardisation of symbology by IMO, IHO, IALA, IEC.
Instruction and training.
Equipment may not be set up to show data.
S-Mode Guidance from national competent authority.
Confusion from message options for locations, area and lines.
IMO / IALA to define message formats.
Published standards for availability, continuity, integrity.
Verification of transmission by originator.
Loss of Virtual AtoN signal.
Redundancy Integrity warning.
MSI and chart.
Shipborne navigational displays able to manage and display the lost target symbol.
AIS semaphore mode.
GNSS vulnerability.
Satellite monitoring/RAIM DGNSS integrity message.
Electronic terrestrial backup.
Verification of transmission by originator.
Virtual AtoN vulnerability; jamming/spoofing.
Correlation with MSI and/or charts data link monitoring by competent authority.
Counter-spoofing (cancelation methods).
Repeated or addressed / acknowledged transmissions.
No confirmation of receipt of message.
Verification of transmission by originator.
Multiple transmission paths (MSI).
Development of e-Navigation.
Erroneous message transmitted.
Procedures for message checking.
Verification of transmission by originator.
Estimation of zone of uncertainty.
Dynamic prediction accuracy i.e., floating object.
Updated verification.
Remove position from message after time.
10.2. LIMITATIONS 10.2.1. GNSS VULNERABILITY Ships may lose their positioning capability when the GNSS service is lost due to jamming or interference unless they have an alternative positioning system.
Poor installation or failure of shipborne equipment can similarly interfere with or degrade GNSS reception which could lead to a loss of the Virtual AtoN or a positional offset of the AIS AtoN symbol (more details in section c).
10.2.2. SPOOFING AND JAMMING OF VIRTUAL ATON Some spoofing methods can be detected through careful monitoring of the transmission channel.
One possibility is to monitor MMSI numbers within the service coverage area.
Duplicated or non-existent MMSI numbers
<doc_end>
