<doc_start>
(AtoN) competent authorities to improve and enhance services to mariners.
Among these are visual, radio and AIS AtoN, including the Virtual AtoN.
This document offers guidance on the provision of Virtual AtoN.

2. SCOPE This document provides guidance on the limitations and benefits of Virtual AtoN, criteria for use, notification process, display, application and delivery methods, applicable standards and guidelines, availability and integrity and legal and liability issues.
This document is a general guide only and is not intended to specify in detail when or how to deploy a Virtual AtoN.
Appropriate sources (see References) should be consulted for additional relevant information.
The concept of Virtual AtoN has its roots in AIS, but in the future other means of transmission and presentation may evolve.
References to AIS in this document should not be construed as limiting Virtual AtoN to that system.
Reference documents are the latest from the date of issue of this Guideline.
Readers have to consider that some will be amended or revoked, and care should be taken to follow up with the most up to date information.

3. PURPOSE The purpose of this Guideline is to inform AtoN competent authorities, mariners and equipment manufacturers of the value and uses of Virtual AtoN.
It will assist competent authorities in determining the appropriate uses for Virtual AtoN and provide organizations with the means to establish and operate them.
This Guideline will assist shipmasters, pilots, mariners, private AtoN owners and shore-based competent authorities in realizing the benefits, limitations and the inherent risks involved when using Virtual AtoN as a means of verifying their position and determining a safe course to steer or avoiding dangers.
This Guideline will assist marine electronics equipment manufacturers in designing and upgrading shipborne navigational display systems.
Finally, maritime training institutes may also wish to avail themselves of the information contained herein to assist with the development of syllabi better equipped to prepare seafarers to take advantage of this emerging technology.
This may take the form of e-Navigation Guidelines provided by National competent authorities.

4. DEFINING A VIRTUAL AID TO NAVIGATION 4.1. DEFINITION A Virtual AtoN does not physically exist but is a digital information object (symbol and text information) promulgated by an authorized service provider that may be presented on navigational systems.
This is used to mark an object other than an existing AtoN or a non-object, such as a reference point in the water or on land.
4.2. AMPLIFICATION Virtual AtoN should only be used after approval by a national competent authority, as stipulated in IALA Guideline G1084 Authorisation of AIS AtoN [25].
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 P 5 Virtual AtoN can be used to inform the mariner about dangers to navigation as well as safe waterways, areas in which extra caution may be necessary and areas to be avoided.
They may be used to represent a line, area, position or other forms that may be displayed graphically.
The AIS ASM Area Notice message may replace or supplement this need for Virtual AtoN to delineate a graphical shape in the future.
The information, including geographic position, carried by Virtual AtoN may be fixed or may change over time (dynamic), depending on the intended purpose.
A dynamic position may relate to the changing nature of a mobile object or an evolving situation.
Virtual AIS AtoN used as Mobile AtoN for marking a moving hazard have to meet stringent refresh rates.
Regular monitoring of such an evolving situation is necessary to ensure that the Virtual AIS AtoN position and information stay relevant.
Virtual AtoN should be used primarily as temporary deployments, where there is a time critical consideration.
They may also be used in a permanent context, where permanent physical AtoN cannot be established or maintained.
However, they are intended as an enhancement, not as a replacement for physical AtoN.
Historically, as stated in the IMO Policy on use of AIS AtoN, permanent usage was restricted.
National competent authorities, after gaining better understanding and experience in the use of AIS AtoN, have identified applications where use of permanent Virtual AIS AtoN are beneficial for mariners and, therefore, deployed.
These two applications of Virtual AtoN, temporary and permanent, should be reflected in Maritime Safety Information (MSI).
The IHO recommends that any temporary status which continues for more than six months should be charted accordingly and treated as permanent.
This should be shown on all relevant nautical paper charts, Electronic Navigational Charts (ENCs) and other relevant nautical publications in due course.
In some countries, permanent status is sub-categorized into annual and seasonal periods.
Virtual is one of the three types of AIS AtoN that can be used for marking.
Physical (Real) and Synthetic (Predicted and Monitored) are the other two types.
More information on the three types of AIS AtoN
<doc_end>
