<doc_start>
11.1. AVAILABILITY The basic principles for categorizing AtoN in accordance with their importance is described Recommendation R0130 Categorisation and Availability Objectives for Short Range Aids to Navigation (O-130 ) [23].
Virtual AtoN Services should be categorized in the same manner.
in IALA If a transmitting site is broadcasting signals for multiple Virtual AtoN, the most critical AtoN would determine the availability requirements for the service.
It should be noted that Virtual AtoN transmitting sites must deliver a specified minimum signal strength at the user antenna within a specified service area.
IALA Recommendation R0126 Use of the Automatic Identification System (A-126) [22] defines the required availability for Virtual AIS AtoN and sets the service area criteria in terms of required signal strength.
Similar signal strength criteria should be defined for transmissions broadcast via means other than AIS.
Availability is determined by the ability to deliver the specified reporting rate, signal strength and valid information content.
Virtual AtoN criteria should be specified for each of these elements in order to clearly define when the service is no longer available (failure state).
11.2. INTEGRITY ALERTING Authorised service providers should have the ability to provide users with warnings within a specified time period when a Virtual AtoN service is not available.
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 P 21 The warning should be given within a time frame compatible with the criticality of the AtoN (IALA Categories 1, 2 and 3).
Warnings may be issued as MSI and, in the case of AIS using the flags of Message 21, using Message 14 or by any other appropriate means.
There is a requirement for integrity monitoring.
Such monitoring schemes should be independent of the system providing the basic service.
Integrity monitoring can take place both onboard a vessel and ashore.
Shipborne monitoring is limited to validity checking of the received data and the reporting rate of the Virtual AtoN.
11.3. CONTINUITY Continuity is the probability that, assuming a fault-free system at the receiving end, the Virtual AtoN will be received and displayed on the navigational display over the time interval applicable for a particular operation.
The continuity of a Virtual AtoN service should be determined as described in IALA Recommendation R0121 For the performance and monitoring of a DGNSS Service in the band 283.5 – 325 kHz [20].
The time interval should be chosen as three hours, or a suitable time frame as determined by the competent authority providing the service.
The probability should be according to the category (IALA categories 1, 2 and 3) of each Virtual AtoN.
If a transmitting site is broadcasting signals for multiple Virtual AtoN, the most critical one would determine the continuity requirements for the service.

12. DEVELOPMENT CONSIDERATIONS For the full benefits of Virtual AtoN to be realised, a number of issues must be addressed in consultation with other bodies, including: 
• Appropriate instruction and training of all mariners and providers as to the provision of Virtual AtoN, symbology, display, and limitations.

• Harmonization of integration and shipborne navigational system specifications to enable the display of Virtual AtoN for SOLAS ships and other users.

• Development of a strategy for implementation of Virtual AtoN using non-AIS based systems.

• The harmonization of the use of MSI by Virtual AtoN within the context of the IMO’s e-Navigation concept.

• Harmonized presentation of Virtual AtoN.

13. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) at http://www.iala-aism.org/wiki/dictionary and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 3 P 22 
14. ABBREVIATIONS AIS Automatic Identification System AtoN Aid(s) to Navigation CCRP Consistent Common Reference Point CPA Closest Point of Approach DGPS Differential Global Positioning System EBL Electronic Bearing Line ECDIS Electronic Chart Display and Information System ECS Electronic Chart System EGC Enhanced Group Calling FATDMA Fixed Access Time Division Multiple Access GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System GPRS General Packet Radio Service GPS Global Positioning System HF High Frequency IALA International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and Lighthouse Authorities IBS Integrated Bridge System IEC International Electro-technical Commission IHO International Hydrographic Organization IMO International Maritime Organization INMARSAT International Maritime Satellite Organization ITU International Telecommunication Union ITU-R ITU Radiocommunications Sector ITU-R-M ITU-R M series Recommendations and ITU-R M series Reports LORAN LOng RAnge Navigation MF Medium Frequency MID Maritime Identification Digits MIO Marine Information Overlay MKD Minimum Keyboard and Display MMSI Maritime Mobile Service Identity MRN Maritime Resource Name MSC Maritime Safety Committee (IMO) MSI Maritime Safety Information MAtoN Mobile Aid(s) to Navigation NAV Sub-Committee on Safety
<doc_end>
