<doc_start>
with the exception of the issuance or cancellation time of the charted symbol.
Some static information will be duplicated on both symbols.
Some text information may also be present at the Virtual AtoN’s displayed location in connection with a NAVTEX or SafetyNET for MSI.
7 36 V-AIS RAIGG BANK VIRTUA Source: Irish Lights and Norwegian Coastal Administration Figure 9 Broadcasted Virtual AIS AtoN port hand mark symbol displayed over the IHO ENC charted symbol IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 3 P 17 Competent authorities should take into account the limited display capabilities for AIS, or other forms of transmission, for all classes of seaborne craft when assessing the value and risks associated with transmitting Virtual AtoN.
10.2.5. USE OF VIRTUAL ATON IN CONFINED WATERWAYS Navigation in narrow channels where there is less room to manoeuvre a vessel, such as in pilotage waters, requires the most accurate navigational marks possible for safety of navigation.
Mariners have started incorporating the use of Virtual AtoN on radar, when such AIS interface is available, as a means of supplementing their existing navigational means.
Mariners see the value in the way Virtual AIS AtoN highlight and allow for the rapid positive identification of some natural or artificial navigational features.
This is especially beneficial during weather, ice, and situations with traffic radar cluttering.
Racons continue to be an essential element and should be the primary choice as they are isolated from any GNSS induced errors.
Source: Canadian Coast Guard Figure 10 Virtual AIS AtoN shown on an ECS (top) and radar (bottom) In Figure 10, three Virtual AIS AtoN are deployed to mark artificial islands used as target marks for winter navigation.
The top sketch shows them displayed on an ECS, and the bottom sketch shows them on radar screen.
The radar target appears right in the centre of the Virtual symbol, facilitating the positive identification through ice clutter for mariners.
There have been reports of Virtual AIS AtoN symbols appearing offset from where they were expected to appear on the radar.
This is happening even when a precise and unaltered position is broadcast.
This is usually represented by a mismatch between a definite radar echo, such as a fixed pillar, and the cross lines centred on the Virtual AIS AtoN symbol.
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 3 P 18 Source: Corporation des Pilotes St Laurent, Canada Figure 11 Example of offset appearance of Virtual AIS AtoN symbol In Figure 11, the centre of the Virtual AIS AtoN symbol almost matching the radar echo of a cellular tower on the left sketch.
A position offset for the same radar target appears on the display of another ship on the right sketch.
The older Virtual AIS AtoN symbol is shown.
An important factor to consider with AIS interfaced on radar, is the AIS positional process.
The Virtual AIS AtoN position displayed on the radar PPI is based on the calculation that is made between the just-received Virtual AIS AtoN broadcast position and the ship’s actual GNSS position through the process of Latitude/Longitude being converted to bearing/distance.
Any error with the GNSS position, for example, an error caused by time lag, will directly impact where the Virtual AIS AtoN symbol will appear on the radar.
This may mislead mariners into thinking that the Virtual AIS AtoN broadcast position is faulty, which is most likely not the case.
GNSS equipment: Different Lat/Long GNss >—___ positioning not matching radar antenna ne a = ~ OFFSET positioning matching | Radar echo from range and radar antenna bearing tothe radar antenna ——- ‘ aie o 2 _— IN POSITION pars Figure 12 Example of effect of delayed GNSS antenna position on display of Virtual AIS AtoN symbol In Figure 12, a matching ship’s GNSS and radar antenna on a moving ship should translate into a Virtual AIS AtoN symbol at a close location to the radar echo target of the broadcasted feature.
A delayed GNSS antenna position on the ship, shown as a ghost image, would translate into an offset Virtual AIS AtoN symbol displayed in comparison to the radar echo target.
Once the AIS AtoN provider has validated that the Virtual AIS AtoN broadcast is adequate and contains no errors, some assumptions can be made regarding the possible causes of shipborne-related errors.
The ITU standard allows IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 P 19 for position accuracy in the magnitude of 20 cm in the broadcasted Virtual AIS AtoN message.
This is an important process in order to help the user build confidence in the service.
The potential sources of errors can be classified into three categories: 1 Limitations of the GNSS interfacing with the radar system: Time
<doc_end>
