<doc_start>
antenna on a moving ship should translate into a Virtual AIS AtoN symbol at a close location to the radar echo target of the broadcasted feature.
A delayed GNSS antenna position on the ship, shown as a ghost image, would translate into an offset Virtual AIS AtoN symbol displayed in comparison to the radar echo target.
Once the AIS AtoN provider has validated that the Virtual AIS AtoN broadcast is adequate and contains no errors, some assumptions can be made regarding the possible causes of shipborne-related errors.
The ITU standard allows IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 P 19 for position accuracy in the magnitude of 20 cm in the broadcasted Virtual AIS AtoN message.
This is an important process in order to help the user build confidence in the service.
The potential sources of errors can be classified into three categories: 1 Limitations of the GNSS interfacing with the radar system: Time delayed error (smoothing update too long, processing, etc.).

• Quality of the equipment and/or wrong settings (geographic datum, lack of upgrade in the firmware, non-supported model, etc.).
2 Limitations of the shipborne navigational system: Equipment truncating or rounding the precise coordinate being broadcasted.

• Small scale in use causes distance and bearing errors that degrade the accuracy of the comparative radar target.

• Gyrocompass errors leading to bearing errors for the comparative radar target.

• Physical position of the vessel in relation to the radar target.
3 Antenna offset: 
• GNSS antenna and/or radar antenna location on the ship are not related precisely to the Consistent Common Reference Point (CCRP) of the ship, usually the conning position.
Competent authorities are encouraged to warn their users about these potential position offset situations.
Some of the solutions and guidance proposed to manage these issues are listed below: 
• Users may validate if the displayed Virtual AIS AtoN position in the information box of the radar is identical to the advertised one from MSI or official publications.
Validating the location and the associated information of the AIS AtoN symbol on other display systems such as ECDIS, ECS, PPU, etc., can also provide meaningful information.

• Mariners may use the Target Tracking (TT) tool of the radar and place it directly on the AIS AtoN to validate that the TT coordinates displayed match those advertised for the Virtual AIS AtoN.
The use of largest possible radar scale is recommended in order to get the best TT accuracy.

• Some competent authorities have started providing Predicted Synthetic and/or Virtual AIS AtoN schematic reference point patterns associated with well-defined navigational marks to assist mariners in assessing the magnitude of the position offset.
Some radar tools, such as the EBL and VRM, can be used to validate that the displayed information is identical to that provided on the schematic reference point diagram.
10.2.6. USE OF VIRTUAL AIS FOR MARKING RESTRICTED AREAS In addition to regular maritime safety enhancement measures, it may be advisable to use Virtual AtoN (Type Special Mark) to identify temporary restriction areas, to prevent intrusion.
If the area is marked with several Virtual AtoN, the name for each object should be the name together with the serial number or the weather dash.
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 3 P 20 ox x * {DANGER AREA siellaialaai *<toaNGeR AREA 1 b military 4 paehamarea , ground ( b q * <A paNGeR AREAS ~~ == =<SpaNGER AREA 2 Source: Swedish Maritime Administration and Swedish Transport Agency Figure 13 Four virtual AIS AtoN marking the limits of a military area This type of Virtual AtoN should not be established onshore to avoid misleading mariners.
Similarly, establishment in Traffic Separation Schemes (TSS) or Deep Water Routes should be avoided if there are no specific reasons.

11. LEVEL OF SERVICE 11.1. AVAILABILITY The basic principles for categorizing AtoN in accordance with their importance is described Recommendation R0130 Categorisation and Availability Objectives for Short Range Aids to Navigation (O-130 ) [23].
Virtual AtoN Services should be categorized in the same manner.
in IALA If a transmitting site is broadcasting signals for multiple Virtual AtoN, the most critical AtoN would determine the availability requirements for the service.
It should be noted that Virtual AtoN transmitting sites must deliver a specified minimum signal strength at the user antenna within a specified service area.
IALA Recommendation R0126 Use of the Automatic Identification System (A-126) [22] defines the required availability for Virtual AIS AtoN and sets the service area criteria in terms of required signal strength.
Similar signal strength criteria should be defined for transmissions broadcast via means other than AIS.
Availability is determined by the ability to deliver the specified reporting rate, signal strength and valid information content.
Virtual AtoN criteria should be specified
<doc_end>
