<doc_start>
Repeated or addressed / acknowledged transmissions.
No confirmation of receipt of message.
Verification of transmission by originator.
Multiple transmission paths (MSI).
Development of e-Navigation.
Erroneous message transmitted.
Procedures for message checking.
Verification of transmission by originator.
Estimation of zone of uncertainty.
Dynamic prediction accuracy i.e., floating object.
Updated verification.
Remove position from message after time.
10.2. LIMITATIONS 10.2.1. GNSS VULNERABILITY Ships may lose their positioning capability when the GNSS service is lost due to jamming or interference unless they have an alternative positioning system.
Poor installation or failure of shipborne equipment can similarly interfere with or degrade GNSS reception which could lead to a loss of the Virtual AtoN or a positional offset of the AIS AtoN symbol (more details in section c).
10.2.2. SPOOFING AND JAMMING OF VIRTUAL ATON Some spoofing methods can be detected through careful monitoring of the transmission channel.
One possibility is to monitor MMSI numbers within the service coverage area.
Duplicated or non-existent MMSI numbers within the coverage area may indicate spoofing.
IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 P 16 Increased spoofing detection capability can be achieved through regional co-operation between neighbouring countries, exchanging valid MMSI numbers and co-operating on identifying invalid MMSI numbers, for example, handing over MMSI numbers from one competent authority to another competent authority when vessels cross the administrative boundaries of these authorities.
Such a scheme is implemented on the administrative boundary between the Malacca and Singapore Straits.
Competent authorities who provide Virtual AtoN services should maintain a database of all valid MMSI numbers assigned to Virtual AtoN.
This database should be shared with such stakeholders as neighbouring countries.
Both spoofing and jamming can compromise and/or shut down a Virtual AtoN service.
Jamming will typically block the service in a certain geographic region.
Spoofing is more sinister since the targeted receiver cannot detect the deception (i.e., the signal appears to be genuine), which could mislead the navigator.
10.2.3. AIS VDL CAPACITY AND FATDMA PLANNING Virtual AtoN services transmitted on an AIS VDL typically use the FATDMA protocol.
If the population of Virtual AtoN in a given area is too high, this may overload the VDL FATDMA slot capacity.
This should be overcome through careful FATDMA planning - IALA Recommendation R0124 The AIS Service (A-124) [21].
10.2.4. DISPLAY LIMITATIONS Although there are clear benefits that can be gained by providing safety information through Virtual AtoN, it must be borne in mind that not all SOLAS class ships, or other craft, may have the ability to display the Virtual AtoN.
Some smaller craft may never have the ability to display Virtual AtoN.
MKD – All SOLAS class vessels are required to be fitted with a Class A AIS station and many non-SOLAS vessels voluntarily carry Class A AIS or Class B AIS stations.
However, a growing number of vessels integrate the AIS data into a navigational display such as ECDIS or radar.
The display of Virtual AtoN on an AIS MKD is limited to alpha- numeric text and, on some units, a graphic display, although there is no standard for such display.
Radar – Only radars that meet the revised performance standard, which came into force in 2008, have a requirement to be capable of displaying a Virtual AIS AtoN.
However, there is currently no IMO requirement for the AIS to be integrated or displayed on radar.
ECDIS – ECDIS mandatory carriage requirement for certain classes of SOLAS vessel has been implemented in stages up to 2018, however, the current ECDIS performance standard MSC 232(82) [2] does not require AIS or other Virtual AtoN to be displayed, nor to be integrated.
Permanent deployment of Virtual AtoN will be represented on ENC/ECS with a charted AIS AtoN symbol.
There will be overlapping since the charting symbol will be present at the same time as the broadcast AIS, with the exception of the issuance or cancellation time of the charted symbol.
Some static information will be duplicated on both symbols.
Some text information may also be present at the Virtual AtoN’s displayed location in connection with a NAVTEX or SafetyNET for MSI.
7 36 V-AIS RAIGG BANK VIRTUA Source: Irish Lights and Norwegian Coastal Administration Figure 9 Broadcasted Virtual AIS AtoN port hand mark symbol displayed over the IHO ENC charted symbol IALA Guideline G1081 Provision of Virtual Marine Aids to Navigation Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1081:ed2.1 3 P 17 Competent authorities should take into account the limited display capabilities for AIS, or other forms of transmission, for all classes of seaborne craft when assessing the value and risks associated with transmitting Virtual AtoN.
10.2.5. USE OF VIRTUAL ATON IN CONFINED WATERWAYS Navigation in narrow channels where there is less room to manoeuvre a vessel, such as in pilotage waters, requires the most accurate navigational marks possible for safety of
<doc_end>
