<doc_start>
4.3.1. WHEN OBSERVED
This is a situation when the VTS observes a developing navigational situation (e.g., a ship deviating from a planned or recommended route) and deems it necessary to intervene.
Early intervention is likely to be necessary, which may preclude pre-assessment checks being carried out.
4.3.1. WHEN OBSERVED
Once the immediate situation has been resolved, the continuation of navigational support should be subsequently clarified and the need for further assessments and checks considered.
4.3.2. ON REQUEST
This is a situation when navigational support is provided at the request of a member of a ship’s bridge team or an embarked pilot.
Provision of navigational support should be formalized and there should be sufficient time for the VTS to make appropriate pre-assessment checks.
4.3.3. PROCEDURAL
This is a situation when navigational support from a VTS forms part of a specific local operational procedure agreed to between participants.
4.3.3. PROCEDURAL
All participants should be appropriately trained in such procedures, which should be formally documented and promulgated.
4.3.3. PROCEDURAL
4.3.4. EXAMPLES OF RESPONDING TO DEVELOPING UNSAFE SITUATIONS

4.3.3. PROCEDURAL
Examples of navigational support when responding to developing unsafe situations include those shown in Table

4.3.3. PROCEDURAL
3:

4.3.3. PROCEDURAL
Table 3 Examples of navigational support when responding to unsafe situations

4.3.3. PROCEDURAL
Information related to: Examples: 
• Requesting ship identification and details such as position, course Request and identification and speed.

• Requesting status of ship's equipment.

• Identifying start and end of navigational support if time permits.

• Providing range and bearing from fixed objects, fairway/channel or Navigational way-points.
information 
• Providing proximity to navigational hazards.
(including position and course information) 
• Providing information related to navigating into a channel/fairway/lane (i.e., track is parallel/diverging/converging with/from/to reference line).

• Advising a ship to alter the course, speed.
Advice 
• Advising a ship to close up/drop back on/from another ship 
• Advising a ship to keep clear from area/position.
<doc_end>
