<doc_start>
assessments in terms of probability and impact 
• Actual numbers of incidents historically, their distribution in time, and their frequency and impact indicators Staffing levels may need to be adjusted to ensure desired outcomes are achieved.

4. SUMMARY A VTS Centre should have a sufficient number of VTS personnel to ensure that the VTS operations can be carried out efficiently and safely under all conditions, with due regard to the safety of navigation within the VTS area.
Every VTS Centre should be staffed by personnel appropriately qualified for the tasks required, and with a number corresponding to the size of the VTS Centre and VTS area to be managed.
When determining, approving or revising staffing levels, the VTS provider should consider the principles in applicable international and national instruments on staffing levels, as well as the need to avoid or minimize excessive hours of work to ensure sufficient rest and to limit fatigue.
Further details concerning labour regulations may be found in national/regional or international legislation.

5. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) at http://www.iala-aism.org/wiki/dictionary and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.
The following definitions are specifically related to this Guideline: Allied Services Allied Services are services actively involved in the passage of the vessel through the VTS area.
Competent authority Competent authority means the entity made responsible by the Government for vessel traffic services.
Duty A period of duty is the total time that VTS personnel will be required to be present at the VTS Centre irrespective of whether or not they are carrying out actual watchkeeping duties at a VTS workstation.
Vessel traffic service or VTS means a service, or services, implemented by a Government with the capability to vessel traffic services interact with vessel traffic and respond to developing situations within a vessel traffic (VTS) service area to improve the safety and efficiency of navigation, contribute to safety of life at sea and support the protection of the environment.
VTS area A VTS area is the delineated, formally declared service area of the VTS.
A VTS area may be subdivided in sub-areas or sectors.
IALA Guideline G1045 Staffing Levels at VTS Centres Edition 1.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1045:ed1.2 P 10 VTS provider VTS provider means the organization or entity authorized by the Government or competent authority to provide a vessel traffic service.
VTS centre A VTS centre is the centre from which the VTS is operated.
Each sub-area of the VTS may have its own sub-centre.
VTS Manager Some VTS organizations may require the appointment of a manager to administer and interface with regional or port management authorities.
In such circumstances the manager should possess managerial qualifications to the satisfaction of the competent authority.
VTS Operator (VTSO) A VTS Operator is an appropriately qualified person performing one or more tasks contributing to the services of the VTS.
VTS personnel VTS personnel means persons performing tasks associated with vessel traffic services, trained in vessel traffic services operations and appropriately qualified.
VTS Supervisor An appropriately qualified VTSO carrying out supervisory duties in a VTS Centre on behalf of a VTS provider.
VTS traffic image A VTS traffic image is the surface picture of vessels and their movements in a VTS area.
VTS workstation A VTS workstation is the place in a VTS Centre from which VTS personnel carry out their duties.
Watchkeeping Watchkeeping standards, including punctuality, handover, general responsibilities on watch and log-keeping.
Technical watchkeeping requirements at a VTS workstation, include standard target tracking routines, VHF/DF monitoring and checks, navigation and operational checks, and equipment performance checks.

6. ABBREVIATIONS AIS Automatic Identification System DSC Digital selective calling DST Decision support tool HMI Human/machine Interface ILO International Labour Organization IMO International Maritime Organization.
ITU International Telecommunication Union SAR Search and Rescue SMCP Standard Marine Communication Phrases VHF Very high frequency (30 MHz to 300 MHz) VTS Vessel traffic service or vessel traffic services (dependent on context) VTSO VTS operator 
7. REFERENCES IALA.
Guideline G1111 Preparation of Operational and Technical Performance Requirements for VTS Systems IALA.
Guideline G1110 Use of Decision Support Tools by VTS Personnel IALA.
Recommendation R1012 VTS Communications IALA Guideline G1045 Staffing Levels at VTS Centres Edition 1.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1045:ed1.2 e P 11 IALA.
Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communication and Phraseology IMO.
Resolution A.918(22) IMO Standard Marine Communication Phrases IALA Guideline G1045 Staffing Levels at VTS Centres Edition 1.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1045:ed1.2 e P 12 e ANNEX A VTS STAFFING CALCULATION SPREADSHEET This annex is a separate Excel spreadsheet and accompanies this Guideline automating the calculations from Annex B after data has been inputted.
ANNEX B POSSIBLE FORMULA FOR DETERMINING THE NUMBER OF
<doc_end>
