<doc_start>
and concentration, for extended periods of time, where consequences of error may be critical.
2.3.3. ERGONOMIC DESIGN The immediate environment within which the VTS personnel work should reflect an ergonomic assessment in order to facilitate effective delivery of services and to support the health and well-being of VTS personnel.
An analysis should include the optimum ergonomic design of workstations and placement of equipment within the VTS work area.
2.3.4. NOISE/DISTRACTIONS/LIGHTING Consideration should be given to minimizing noise levels and other possible distractions within the VTS Centre.
Careful management of lighting levels may also improve the overall working environment.
An inadequate working environment will have a negative impact on the performance of the VTS personnel and may affect their ability to discharge their responsibilities.
2.4. HUMAN RESOURCES Collective agreements, contracts and terms of employment for VTS personnel should be taken into consideration when determining the staffing levels.
Staffing levels may need to accommodate training and assessment activities.
Careful assessment of the functions required of VTS personnel should be considered to ensure that their primary safety role is not compromised.
The requirement for additional or “call-in” personnel should also be considered when necessary to ensure the primary role is maintained.
Consideration should be given to the rotation of watchkeeping VTS personnel and the need for rest breaks, depending on the intensity of work and the overall working environment.
Due to the unique circumstances in each VTS Centre, it is not appropriate, nor possible, to specify the length or number of breaks necessary to avoid fatigue.
IALA Guideline G1045 Staffing Levels at VTS Centres Edition 1.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1045:ed1.2 7) P 6 2.5. PROVISION OF A VTS Many variable factors relating to the provision of a VTS can influence the workload, for example: Peak and lull periods in vessel traffic Extreme weather and emergency situations The size of the VTS Area, number of sectors Type of traffic, traffic density and monitoring of the VTS traffic image The frequency with which the VTS has to respond to developing unsafe situations 
• The resolution and accuracy of the VTS equipment and the reliability of the VTS information being processed 
• Requirements for the forward planning of movements Enforcing adherence to governing rules and regulations Issuing traffic clearances in respect of the priority of movements Establishing routes to be followed INTERACTION WITH ALLIED SERVICES AND ADJACENT VTS 2.6. The workload of VTS personnel is likely to be influenced significantly by the degree to which a VTS is required to co- operate with Allied Services, Port Operations, Emergency and Security services and adjacent VTS.
Such activities can support the functions of the VTS, and therefore, increase safety and efficiency.
To ensure that VTS personnel are not distracted from the primary responsibilities, it may be necessary to carry out a careful analysis of the workload associated with supporting Allied Services.
Co-operation with Allied Services reflects both safety and efficiency.
It should be a continuous process and is of particular importance in cases where a passage plan is to be established, and action agreement between services is required.
Procedures for the co-operation between parties should be established.
The co-operation with port operations relates primarily to efficiency but may be an important factor in establishing a passage plan.
Co-operation with adjacent VTS can be of particular interest where two such services share a common area/region border.
In these instances, the VTS may need to coordinate jointly with the master of a ship when the passage plan is being agreed.
In other cases, it should be recognized that the exchange of data between VTS could give advance notice of arrivals, thus relieving the vessels the burden of reporting.
It could also provide an administration with valuable information on future traffic and cargo flow in its intermediate sea area.
Co-operation with other services such as Search and Rescue, Emergency, Security and Pollution Control should be conducted in accordance with pre-established contingency plans which clearly state responsibilities and procedures for such co-operation.
VTS providers should take into consideration that the main responsibility of VTS personnel should be, at all times, to interact with the traffic and respond to traffic situations developing in the VTS area.
Appropriate staffing to cope with overlapping tasks should always be provided.
2.7. TECHNOLOGY AND EQUIPMENT VTS providers should be aware of the fact that technical equipment may have either a positive or negative effect on workload.
It should be noted that the complexity and sophistication of the software and hardware of the systems IALA Guideline G1045 Staffing Levels at VTS Centres Edition 1.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1045:ed1.2 e P 7 used in the VTS Centre may require high levels of attention and concentration by VTS personnel, especially when new systems are installed.
When drawing up the specification for VTS equipment4, careful consideration should be given to ensure that the equipment is capable of
<doc_end>
