<doc_start>
Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communication and Phraseology refer.
IALA Guideline G1045 Staffing Levels at VTS Centres Edition 1.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1045:ed1.2 3 P 8 compose and may increase workload.
Similarly, the need for closed loop communications may generate an increase in workload and affect the staffing level.
The level of radio communications is strongly influenced by the number of reporting points and traffic density and staffing levels should reflect this.
The number and location of the reporting points should be kept under review in order to reduce radio communications.
2.8.2. TELEPHONE AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS The VTS Centre is the heart of a complex web of information, which can result in the reception of a large number of enquiries by telephone not directly connected with the VTS function.
Each telephone call made or received by VTS personnel generates workload.
Where VTS Centres have responsibility for tasks additional to vessel traffic services, staffing levels may need to be enhanced accordingly.
VTS providers should develop a clear policy on the nature of telephone communication to and from the VTS Centre.
One way of reducing telephone communication is to ensure that appropriate means are available to facilitate the access of information to relevant parties concerned (i.e., through a computer network or the Internet).
2.9. INCIDENTS, ACCIDENTS AND OTHER EMERGENCIES The potential for an incident or unexpected event to occur is always present.
Any incident within the VTS area or in the VTS Centre will create additional workload for the staff on duty – the more serious the incident, the greater the increase in workload.
A staffing level that is only able to deal with the expected workload will certainly be overloaded when an incident, emergency or unexpected event occurs.
VTS Centres should have contingency plans to deal with internal and external incidents in the VTS area.
The activation and execution of these plans may have an effect on the staffing levels.
Appropriate arrangements should be part of any contingency plan.
Debriefing of these events contributes to the ability of the staff on duty to deal with them.
2.10. STRESS RELATED WORKLOAD Workloads, which are too high or too low, can affect efficiency, operational safety, personal health and/or motivation.
This type of individual workload could be characterized as either hyper- or hypo- stress.
Hyper-stress can be caused by high workload.
It may impair or prevent personnel from interpreting information, making effective decisions and taking the appropriate action.
Appropriate measures (e.g., additional or reallocation of VTS personnel) should be taken in order to maintain the required performance.
Hypo-stress can be caused by either prolonged inactivity or low workload.
It can have a negative impact on the performance and motivation of the VTS personnel.
Over-staffing can create boredom and monotony in the workplace and reduce the possibility of gaining and maintaining experience and developing professional skills.
An underemployed individual or a team may result in attitudes that might be unacceptable within the VTS organization and the associated stakeholders.

3. PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT A VTS should operate within set terms of reference, which should be incorporated into a mission statement or a service level agreement.
VTS managers, supervisors and operators should be aware of the aims and objectives of the VTS.
Once the aims and objectives are defined, measurement of performance should be carried out to determine whether these are IALA Guideline G1045 Staffing Levels at VTS Centres Edition 1.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1045:ed1.2 3 P 9 being met.
Measurement could be determined by the evaluation of internal management information, by a formal survey of stakeholders, or by a combination of both.
The outcomes measured will be driven by the agreed terms of reference and may include: Response times to calls and enquiries to the VTS 
• Number of targets that each VTSO has to monitor at any one time Traffic patterns, density, geography of the area and potential risk of incident 
• Risk assessments in terms of probability and impact 
• Actual numbers of incidents historically, their distribution in time, and their frequency and impact indicators Staffing levels may need to be adjusted to ensure desired outcomes are achieved.

4. SUMMARY A VTS Centre should have a sufficient number of VTS personnel to ensure that the VTS operations can be carried out efficiently and safely under all conditions, with due regard to the safety of navigation within the VTS area.
Every VTS Centre should be staffed by personnel appropriately qualified for the tasks required, and with a number corresponding to the size of the VTS Centre and VTS area to be managed.
When determining, approving or revising staffing levels, the VTS provider should consider the principles in applicable international and national instruments on staffing levels, as well as the need to avoid or minimize excessive hours of work to ensure sufficient rest and to limit fatigue.
Further details concerning labour regulations may be
<doc_end>
