<doc_start>
shipping routes or the AtoN have been implemented, AIS overlays provide a useful tool to measure the effectiveness of the new measure(s) introduced.
Figure 13 AIS density plot after the implementation of TSS Bornholmsgat between Denmark and Sweden IALA Guideline G1104 The Application of Maritime Surface Picture for Analysis in Risk Assessment and the Provision of Aids to Navigation Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1104:ed1.1 P 9 
5. OTHER CONSIDERATIONS POSSIBLE LIMITATIONS TO BE CONSIDERED WITH AIS DATA The data and information that is gained through AIS traffic analysis must be treated with a certain amount of caution: The data received from the vessel, other than position information, is dependent on the accuracy of the input from the vessel.
There are many instances where ship dynamic AIS data such as draught and destination are incorrect or suspect.
Many users of AtoN are not required to carry AIS transceivers.
Although many leisure craft now carry AIS class B, this is not mandatory, and as such, this sector of the user community must be further considered using other data inputs.
For example, a yachting routing atlas, as a GIS overlay.
AIS data is generally received from a network of base stations.
The data will become less reliable the further the area being considered is offshore.
There is not a firm line between good and poor data with differing atmospheric conditions affecting reception at different times.
Data received from further offshore, including AIS satellite data, must be treated with caution.
The volume and type of marine traffic may be subject to variations on an hourly, daily, weekly or seasonal basis, e.g., fishing and tourist / leisure activities during the summer or traffic movements by local ferries at certain times of the day.

6. CONCLUSION The assessment process for the provision of AtoN must rely mainly on the qualitative assessment of experts.
The diversity of the various aspects that have to be considered will include the vast assortment and variety of vessels, the experience of the mariners involved and the very different parameters that exist at the different locations.
This qualitative assessment can now be informed by the quantitative, statistical elements provided by AIS traffic analysis data and GIS overlays; subject to the possible inaccuracies in overall AIS data.
It is essential that every opportunity is taken to provide the correct control measures to mitigate risk.
These include the most appropriate mix of AtoN and consideration of navigation aids available on board the vessels in question.
It is also essential that resources are used appropriately without any negative effect on the safety of the mariner.
In depth AIS traffic analysis can inform decisions to ensure that maximum efficiencies are achieved.

7. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.
Specifically for this document: Nominal range The luminous range when the meteorological visibility is 10 nm.
Nominal range assumes that the light is observed against a dark background, free of background lighting.
IALA Guideline G1104 The Application of Maritime Surface Picture for Analysis in Risk Assessment and the Provision of Aids to Navigation Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1104:ed1.1 P 10 
8. ABBREVIATIONS AIS Automatic Identification System AtoN Marine Aid to Navigation GIS Geographic Information System LAT Lowest Astronomical Tide TSS Traffic Separation Scheme IALA Guideline G1104 The Application of Maritime Surface Picture for Analysis in Risk Assessment and the Provision of Aids to Navigation Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1104:ed1.1 P 11
<doc_end>
