<doc_start>
available as well as using traditional methods of navigational analysis.
The options discussed are not an exhaustive list and the AtoN authority should always look to use any additional information available to them.
OVERVIEW OF GIS METHODOLOGY Initial use of GIS to assist in the determination of AtoN requirements will normally begin with data being transposed onto a nautical chart layer of an appropriate scale to inform further analysis.
Once the area of assessment is identified on the chart a series of layers can be used, including: Vessel traffic patterns using AIS data Leisure vessel data Fishing vessel data Existing and proposed offshore structures developments Up to date and historical hydrographic survey information Position, nominal range and sectors of visibility of lighthouses and beacons Position and type of AtoN The GIS will then be used to systematically show and remove layers, allowing for in depth study of all factors both in isolation and in combination with the other elements.
IALA Guideline G1104 The Application of Maritime Surface Picture for Analysis in Risk Assessment and the Provision of Aids to Navigation Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1104:ed1.1 P 4 
4. APPLICATIONS 4.1. INTRODUCTION There are a number of applications relevant to this analysis tool, including Wreck marking Obstructions such as new offshore structures New dangers such as newly discovered shallow soundings New routing measures or traffic separation scheme ASSESSMENT OF WRECKS AND OBSTRUCTIONS When a new wreck or obstruction has been announced a formal assessment must be made on whether; a vessel and personnel need to be deployed to accurately survey or guard the wreck or obstruction; and an appropriate AtoN needs to be deployed.
Before traffic data was available, this decision relied almost entirely on the expertise of the assessor with no supporting evidence to underpin the decision.
Information is, and has been available for many years regarding vessel trading routes which helped to inform the process, but this information was not able to provide quantitative data on specific traffic movements or indeed an assessment of the dimension of vessels actually passing over a particular location.
Considering each situation, those assessing the risk must make a rapid but informed decision based on the worst possible scenario.
An assessment of the clearance between the wreck and the sea surface at chart datum or Lowest Astronomical Tide (LAT) must be made.
Using an appropriate analysis tool, and compiling AIS traffic data over a significant period, the assessor will be able to extract the volume and type of vessels over a specific draft that passes in the vicinity of the wreck.
As an example, referring to Figure 1: If it is considered that an obstruction has been reported with a maximum height above the seabed of 15 metres, which is located in an area with surrounding depths of 22 metres, then the available depth over the obstruction is 7 metres and therefore, vessels with a draught over 5 metres maybe considered to be in danger.
IALA Guideline G1104 The Application of Maritime Surface Picture for Analysis in Risk Assessment and the Provision of Aids to Navigation Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1104:ed1.1 P 5 Figure 1 Initial position of the wreck plotted Figure 2 Wreck together with 28 days AIS data traffic 12, (} [St WNT ini ta Figure 3 Vessels passing within 3nm of the wreck Figure 4 Vessels over 5 metres draught Filtering of the AIS data layer to show only vessels with a draught in excess of 5 metres can then inform the risk assessment to determine whether further action is required which may include the deployment of AtoN to mitigate the risk.
100% 90% - em _iia Percentage ~ Ne & z 30% 20% 10% 0% Unspecified <4 4106 6to9 Sto 12 >12 Vessel Draught (m) in| aa |e a ee ee ee J4to6 | CC [gto12_ | | Ey a | [Total 8 100 % Figure 5 Traffic analysis by draught(1) Figure 6 Traffic analysis by draught(2) IALA Guideline G1104 The Application of Maritime Surface Picture for Analysis in Risk Assessment and the Provision of Aids to Navigation Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1104:ed1.1 P 6 Further filtering of vessels types, including the consideration of AIS class A and B will also provide for a more in depth assessment of the risk and mitigation measures required.
4.3. ASSESSMENT OF MARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW OR EXISTING SHOALS AND SHALLOW AREAS SUBSEQUENT TO HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEY When new survey information is received it is necessary to make an assessment as to whether both charting and AtoN requirements needs to be amended.
This may have relevance to the AtoN already deployed.
A decision shall be made on whether new or amended AtoN are required and the time frame within which they must be deployed.
When new survey information is received the GIS can be used to overlay survey and contour information
<doc_end>
