<doc_start>
the need for the VTS have been either alleviated or at least reduced to an acceptable level”.
IALA Guideline G1131 Setting and Measuring VTS Objectives Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1131:ed1.1 P 5 IALA GUIDELINE G1115 ON PREPARING FOR AN IMO MEMBER STATE AUDIT SCHEME (IMSAS) ON 2.1.9. A VTS [8] This Guideline provides guidance for Contracting Governments and competent authorities to meet the objectives of an IMO Member State Audit Scheme (IMSAS) with respect to the implementation and delivery of a VTS, that is, to demonstrate they are fulfilling their responsibilities under the general provisions of treaty law and IMO conventions for promulgating laws and regulations.
They are also responsible for taking all other steps which may be necessary to give full and complete effect to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) Chapter V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 
12. In particular, the guidance focuses on providing assistance with the planning and preparation for an audit, including: Compliance with the audit standard.
The enactment of legislation, as appropriate, for delivery of a VTS under SOLAS.
The administration and enforcement of the applicable laws and regulations of the Member State.

• The mechanism and controls in place, by which the delegation of authority by a Member State to a recognized organization, for the purposes of implementing and delivering a VTS, is effected.

3. SETTING OBJECTIVES FOR A VTS 3.1. WHAT ARE VTS OBJECTIVES?
A VTS Objective is a statement with direct and practical interpretation for management purposes and against which performance can be evaluated quantitatively (i.e., targets/thresholds) and measured practically.
In particular, it should: be a clear statement of a specific, measurable outcome to be achieved; and, not be a listing of strategies or actions that will be performed during the fiscal year.
In setting the objectives for a VTS consideration should be given to defining statements that contribute to one or more of the following: 
• the purpose of the VTS; and operational considerations to deliver the requisite service(s).
3.2. THE PURPOSE OF VTS The International Convention on the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) Chapter V (Safety of Navigation) Regulation 12 states that: “Vessel traffic services contribute to safety of life at sea, safety and efficiency of navigation and protection of the marine environment, adjacent shore areas, work sites and offshore installations from possible adverse effects of maritime traffic.” IMO Resolution A.1158(32) states that: “3.1 The purpose of VTS is to contribute to safety of life at sea, improve the safety and efficiency of navigation and support the protection of the environment within a VTS area by mitigating the development of unsafe situations through: .1 providing timely and relevant information on factors that may influence ship movements and assist on‐board decision making.
IALA Guideline G1131 Setting and Measuring VTS Objectives Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1131:ed1.1 P 6 ) monitoring and managing of ship traffic to ensure the safety and efficiency of ship movements.
.3 responding to developing unsafe situations.” Examples of objectives that contribute to the purpose of a VTS are provided at annex A.
3.3. OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS In determining objectives, consideration should be given to, but not limited to: a) Equipment A.1158(32) states that “The VTS provider should ….
ensure that appropriate equipment, systems and facilities for the delivery of VTS are provided”.
The equipment requirement should be as per IALA Recommendation R0128 (V-128) on Operational and Technical Performance Requirements for VTS Equipment [9] and IALA Guideline G1111 on Preparation of Operational and Technical Performance Requirements for VTS Systems [10].
b) Staff Recommendation R0103 (V-103) [11] and Guideline G1045 [12] are the main documents for providing the standard for training and certification of VTS personnel and staffing level for VTS personnel respectively.
In addition, Guideline 1017 provides guidelines on the assessment for various training requirements.
c) Procedures Guideline G1141 [13] provides assistance to develop operational procedures needed for VTS operation.
d) Quality Management IALA Recommendation R0132 Quality Management for Aids to Navigation Authority (O-132) [14] is the main reference document to be utilized for establishing a quality management system (QMS) process at VTS Centres.
Additionally, the following documents are also relevant for operational consideration with regards to quality management: IALA Guideline G1101 Auditing and Assessing a VTS IALA Guideline G1115 Preparing for the IMO Audit Scheme (IMSAS) on a VTS; and 
• IALA VTS Manual [15].
Examples of objectives that contribute to achieving the operational considerations are provided at annex A.

4. SETTING GUIDELINES TO MEASURE OBJECTIVES Once the objectives for the VTS have been set a process should be implemented to ensure they are being met.
4.1. MEASURING THE OBJECTIVES To monitor and assess that the objectives set for the VTS are met, measures need to be determined.
This is to identify that the VTS is effectively contributing to alleviate, or at least reducing to an acceptable
<doc_end>
