<doc_start>
documentation associated with this Guideline may be found on the IALA website www.iala-aism.org.
IALA Guideline G1101 Auditing and Assessing a VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1017:ed1.1 ® P 4 
4. RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibilities of the Contracting Governments/competent authorities and VTS providers in planning, establishing and operating a VTS are described in IMO Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services.
Recognizing that the relationship between the competent authority and the VTS provider may differ between countries the following guidance is provided for the respective responsibilities.
4.1. CONTRACTING GOVERNMENT / COMPETENT AUTHORITY The Contracting Government should: establish a legal basis for VTS that gives effect to regulation V/12 of the Convention; and appoint and authorize a competent authority for VTS.
The competent authority for VTS should: 
• establish a regulatory framework for establishing and operating VTS in accordance with relevant international conventions and IMO instruments, IALA standards and national law; and authorize VTS providers to operate VTS within a delineated VTS area.
The Contracting Government/competent authority should ensure the on-going effectiveness of the VTS and consistency with international guidelines through audits and/or periodic assessments.
Such assessments could be managed by the Contracting Government/competent authority itself or by an accredited third party, such as an IALA approved classification society (IALAACS).
However, even though the audits or assessments are made by a third party, the responsibility always lies with the Contracting Government/competent authority.
4.2. VTS PROVIDERS VTS providers should: ensure that VTS conform with the regulatory framework set by the competent authority for VTS; 
• set operational objectives for VTS that are consistent with improving the safety and efficiency of ship traffic and the protection of the environment.
The objectives set should be routinely evaluated to demonstrate that they are being achieved; ensure that appropriate VTS equipment, systems and facilities for the delivery of VTS are provided; 
• ensure that VTS are adequately staffed and that VTS personnel are appropriately trained and qualified; and 
• ensure that information regarding requirements and procedures of VTS and the categories of ships required to participate in VTS are promulgated in appropriate nautical publications.
The VTS should be operated under a quality management system (QMS) and the VTS provider should ensure the on-going integrity of the QMS through periodic review/audit as described in the VTS Manual and IALA Recommendation R0132 Quality Management for Aids to Navigation Authorities (O-132) [3].

5. FRAMEWORK FOR AUDITING AND ASSESSING The framework for auditing and assessing a VTS and the subsequent on-going assessment and evaluation of safe and effective provision of the service/s provided should be comprised of the following elements: The use of a quality management system (QMS) IALA Guideline G1101 Auditing and Assessing a VTS Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1017:ed1.1 ® P 5 The use of a safety management system (SMS) The audit checklist for the assessment of a VTS, which may be found at annex A 
• The guidance provided in the VTS Manual and IALA recommendations and guidelines regarding the establishment and operation of a VTS 5.1. CHECKLIST FOR AUDITING AND ASSESSING A VTS The checklist at annex A provides a tool to assess and monitor the delivery of a VTS with regards to international obligations, the IALA recommendations, guidelines and VTS Manual.
The QMS that an individual VTS provider operates under may have a corporate focus and a scope that does not fully cover the specific delivery of a VTS.
The checklist provides a robust, yet flexible, framework to ensure the VTS can be assessed and monitored in a way that facilitates consistency in the delivery of a VTS.

6. PROCEDURES FOR AUDITING AND ASSESSING A VTS IMO Resolution A.1158(32) describes the principles and general provisions for the operation of a VTS and participating vessels, in addition to the roles and responsibilities of Contracting Governments, competent authorities and VTS providers.
Audits and assessments are an essential management tool to be used for verifying objective evidence of processes, to assess how successfully processes have been implemented, for judging the effectiveness of achieving any defined target levels, to provide evidence concerning reduction and elimination of problem areas.
The criteria for auditing and assessment of a VTS provider should be made available by the competent authority.
The following procedures provide competent authorities with guidelines for auditing and assessing a VTS: 
• Step 1 – Request The entity1 submits a request to the competent authority.
Prior to submission of an audit and/or assessment request, it is recommended that the entity conducts its own internal check using the audit checklist at annex A.
Step 2 – Pre-audit documentation The entity submits completed pre-audit documentation.
The entity should ensure that the checklist and the supporting documentation are submitted in sufficient time to allow the competent authority to properly assess the submission.
Step 3 – Evaluation of pre-audit documentation The competent authority evaluates the pre-audit documentation and the supporting
<doc_end>
