<doc_start>
on national requirements and the particular arrangements arising out of the implementation of IMO Resolution A.949(23) Guidelines on Places of Refuge for Ships in Need of Assistance [17].
5.2.4. MEDICAL EMERGENCY Processes and procedures for medical emergencies should be established.
Actions may include: 
• Inform MRCC ; Inform coast radio station; Consider special manoeuvring requirements; and 
• Relay information from responsible health authority to arriving vessels suspected of being infected with a contagious disease that requires special care e.g., quarantine.
5.2.5. VESSEL NOT UNDER COMMAND (NUC) Processes and procedures in the event of a “vessel not under command” should be established.
Actions may include: Promulgate information concerning incident to vessels in the VTS area; 
• Obtain detailed information about onboard situation; 
• Maintain communication with vessel; Assess vessel’s proximity to danger (danger to vessel itself and other traffic); and Alert allied services and other support units, if appropriate.
5.2.6. SECURITY INCIDENT In the event of a security incident, processes and procedures should be established.
Procedures should reflect any involvement of the VTS with the Port Facility Security Plan (PFSP) as per the International Ship and Port facility Security Code (ISPS)[7].
IALA Guideline G1141 Operational Procedures for Delivering VTS Edition 3.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1141:ed3.0 P 16 5.2.7. PROTEST ACTION Processes and procedures should be established to respond to protest action in the VTS area.
Throughout any protest action, the safety of vessels and protestors is paramount.
Actions may include: Alert responsible authority; Act on local call-out procedures, including but not limited to VTS manager; and Promulgate information concerning incidents to vessels in the VTS area.
5.2.8. NATURAL DISASTER Natural disaster procedures should be established to deal with situations such as earthquakes, tidal waves, fire, and exceptional weather conditions.
Actions may include: Promulgate information to vessels in the VTS area; Act on local call-out procedures; and 
• Inform MRCC.
EVALUATION OF PROCEDURES All processes and procedures should be regularly reviewed and evaluated for their adequacy and to support the objectives of the VTS.
Such relevant times may include: 
• Changes to regulatory requirements 
• Changes to VTS infrastructure, including systems and equipment changes and upgrades 
• Changes of VTS areas and sectors 
• Changes of port or fairway infrastructure 
• After a significant near-miss or incident 
• As part of the ongoing evaluation of the VTS The VTS provider should also ensure that VTS personnel are updated with changes to procedures and competence verified through revalidation training.

7. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary).
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.

8. ABBREVIATIONS Vessel Traffic Service or Vessel Traffic Services (dependent on context) 
9. REFERENCES IALA Guideline G1141 Operational Procedures for Delivering VTS Edition 3.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1141:ed3.0 P 17 IALA.
Recommendation R0127 (V-127) VTS Operations IMO.
Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services IALA.
Guideline G1141 Operational Procedures for Vessel Traffic Services IALA.
Standard S1040 Vessel Traffic Services IALA.
Recommendation R0132 Quality Management for Aids to Navigation Authorities on DH [6] IALA.
Guideline G1052 Quality Management in AtoN Service Delivery [7] The International Ship and Port Facility (ISPS) Code [8] IALA.
Guideline G1156 Recruitment, Training and Assessment of VTS Personnel [9] IALA.
Guideline G1118 Marine Casualty/Incident Reporting and Recording, Including Near-Miss Situations as it Relates to VTS IALA.
Guideline G1131 Setting and Measuring VTS Objectives IMO.
International Convention for the Safety of Life At Sea IMO.
Resolution A.918(22) IMO Standard Marine Communication Phrases [13] IMO.
Resolution A.954(23) Proper use of VHF channels at sea [14] IALA.
Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology [15] IALA.
Guideline G1089 Provision of a VTS [16] IALA.
Guideline G1102 VTS Interaction with Allied or Other Services IMO.
Resolution A.949(23) Guideline on Places of Refuge for Ships in Need of Assistance IALA Guideline G1141 Operational Procedures for Delivering VTS Edition 3.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1141:ed3.0 P 18 ANNEX A NAVIGATIONAL SUPPORT – PRE-ASSESSMENT CONSIDERATIONS Examples of considerations for making a pre-assessment prior to the provision of navigational support may include: Capabilities: 1 VTS operator workload.
VTS equipment capabilities and limitations, performance, serviceability and back-up (particularly key elements of communications, radar and AIS).
2 3 Capability of the vessel and bridge staff to continue passage under navigational support: Status of the ship’s navigational/communications equipment and machinery; Knowledge and understanding of VTS and knowledge of the local area; c Language ability; and d Carriage of up-to-date charts.
Operational Considerations: Positive identification of ship to be supported.
Alternative options (e.g., anchor, provision of pilot, amendment to voyage or passage plan).
3 Cargo carried.
Risk if navigational support is not provided.
Environmental conditions (wind, day/night, visibility, tidal height, tidal stream).
6 Other ship traffic.
Communications channel for navigational support.
Checks: 1 Master’s understanding that VTS navigational support does
<doc_end>
