<doc_start>
provision of VTS set out in paragraphs 4.1 – 4.3 above still apply, a VTS established on the basis of voluntary participation is unlikely to be empowered to regulate or issue instructions.
VTS personnel should take into account that where a VTS is established on the basis of voluntary participation, not all ships present in the VTS Area may be participating and may not even be monitoring the designated communications channel(s).

6. OTHER CONSIDERATIONS IMO Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services states that: IALA Guideline G1089 Provision of a VTS Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1089:ed2.0 P 11 “Ships not designated as participating ships may take part in a VTS subject to complying with the requirements of the VTS and any guidance issued by the VTS provider”.
Instances where this may occur include situations when: 
• a VTS may encourage voluntary participation from categories of ships that are not required by the regulations of that VTS to participate; or 
• a ship that is not required by the regulations of that VTS to participate may request to participate in the VTS and receive information and advice during their transit.
In these situations, the principles of the provision of VTS set out in paragraphs 4.1 – 4.3 still apply.
However, careful consideration should be given to factors such as: The authority to issue requirements or instructions to voluntary participants.
Voluntary participants may not provide all of the information required of mandatory participants.
“Participating ships” may not be aware of “voluntary participants”.

7. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) at http://www.iala-aism.org/wiki/dictionary and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.

8. ABBREVIATIONS VTS Vessel traffic service or vessel traffic services (dependent on context) 
9. REFERENCES IMO.
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as amended (SOLAS) [2] IMO.
Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services IALA.
Recommendation R0127 VTS Operations IALA.
Standard S1040 Vessel Traffic Services.
IMO.
Resolution A.918(22) IMO Standard Marine Communication Phrases (SMCP) IALA.
Recommendation R1012 VTS Communications IALA.
Guideline G1132 VTS VHF Voice Communications and Phraseology IMO.
Resolution A.706(17)a World-Wide Navigational Warning Service IALA Guideline G1089 Provision of a VTS Edition 2.0 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1089:ed2.0 P 12
<doc_end>
