<doc_start>
to be held on- board every ship.
There are some general rules for construction and content of messages, which should be considered: 
• Use message markers.

• Use standard phraseology.
Some standard phrases and the message intent are detailed in Part C.

• Avoid unnecessary words (e.g., “what time do you think your ETA is at the pilot station, thank you”, should be: “what is your ETA at the pilot station”).
Keep the subject, verb, and object as near to one another as possible.

• Use the active form (such as “INFORMATION.
Ship BRAVO is overtaking you” instead of passive “INFORMATION.
You are being overtaken by ship BRAVO).

• The use of action words (e.g., PROCEED) should come before the condition (e.g., time or location).
1 Plain language is writing that is clear, concise, well-organized, and follows other best practices appropriate to the subject or field and intended audience.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 9 Each phrase should contain only one topic.

• A maximum of two message markers and two phrases should be used in one transmission to avoid an overload on the recipient.
Information must be relevant, as accurate as possible and timely.

• Spell out words using the phonetic alphabet (Section 5.1.3) and use phonetic numbers (Section 5.1.4) as required for the names of buoys, stations, call signs etc.

• Ships should be clearly identified (e.g., by name and call sign) and it may also be beneficial to identify by ship type, for example “container ship Maersk Rotterdam”.
In many cases, the message element will be preceded by the identity of the ship about which information is being provided.
5.1.2. MESSAGE MARKERS To facilitate shore-to-ship and ship-to-shore communications, message markers should be used to increase the probability of the purpose of the message being properly understood.
Message markers increase the effectiveness and urgency of VHF communications as required and may help emphasize the content of the message or to ensure that the message will be properly understood.
Whilst the use of message markers is not obligatory, their general use is good practice and VTS personnel should apply these depending on the assessment of the situation.
Their use is strongly recommended when a degree of stress or urgency exists, when there are language difficulties and when responding to unsafe situations.
There are eight message markers as defined in IMO Resolution A.918(22) Standard Marine Communication Phrases (SMCP) [2].
Seven of them are frequently used by VTS and are explained in more detail below.
The message marker should be spoken preceding the message or the corresponding part of the message.
5.1.2.1. Information This indicates that the following message is restricted to observed facts, situations etc.
VTS INFORMATION.
Water level at breakwater is 4 metres.
VTS INFORMATION.
Container Ship Maersk Dusseldorf [position] inbound and will take tugs at Swanson Dock swing basin.
Note: This marker is normally used for navigational and traffic information, etc.
Information is to assist on-board decision-making process.
5.1.2.2. Advice This indicates that the following message implies the intention of the sender to influence others and may include a recommendation.
VTS INFORMATION.
Container Ship Maersk Dusseldorf [position] inbound and will take tugs at Swanson Dock swing basin.
VTS ADVICE.
Reduce to safe speed.
Note: The decision whether to follow the ADVICE still stays with the recipient.
ADVICE does not necessarily have to be followed but should be considered very carefully.
5.1.2.3. Warning This indicates that the following message implies the intention of the sender to alert others to potential dangers.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 10 VTS VTS WARNING.
You are approaching shallow water distance 6 cables.
Note: This means that any recipient of a WARNING should pay immediate attention to the danger mentioned and confirm the ship’s position, course and speed in relation to the warning.
Consequences are up to the recipient.
5.1.2.4. Instruction This indicates that the following message implies the intention of the sender to direct the action of others.
In a VTS area, ships should comply with instructions given to the ship by a VTS unless contradictory safety and/or marine environment protection reasons exist.
Masters may be required to report on their actions should they decide to disregard any instruction given by a VTS.
It is important, therefore, that when an instruction is issued by a VTS it has the appropriate regulatory status and authority to do so.
VTS INSTRUCTION.
Remain West of No 1 Buoy until ship X has passed.
5.1.2.5. Question This indicates that the following message is of interrogative character.
VTS VTS QUESTION.
What is your maximum draft?
5.1.2.6. Answer This indicates that the following message is the reply to a previous question.
An answer should not contain another question.
VTS ANSWER.
Pilot boarding 0800. 5.1.2.7. Request
<doc_end>
