<doc_start>
speaker.
5.3.1.2. Clarity The sender and receiver both have a responsibility to ensure that what is said is understood: Ask open questions to probe for further detail if required.
Avoid asking leading questions.
Avoid coming to conclusions before the sender finishes.
Be aware of the sender’s choice and application of words.
Encourage feedback through questioning.
5.3.1.3. Interpretation Interpretation not only requires verification of what the sender has said, but also the understanding of the information given.
Steps to ensure understanding are: Communicate your interpretation and verify its accuracy.

• Identify the main issues.

• Do not assume what the sender will say, particularly when receiving routine communications.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 18 5.3.2. CLOSED LOOP COMMUNICATIONS [READ-BACK] Misunderstandings in messages received may include half-heard words or guessed-at numbers.
The potential for misunderstanding increases with the complexity of messages and may cause the bridge team to: accept inadequate information received; or 
• determine for themselves the most probable interpretation.
Closed-loop communication is a technique used to avoid misunderstandings.
The sender gives a message, the receiver repeats a received message, or an appropriate part thereof, back to the sender to obtain confirmation of correct reception.
When the receiver correctly repeats the message back, the sender will say “YES” (a response in the affirmative).
When the receiver incorrectly repeats the message back, the sender will say “NO” (a response in the negative) and repeat the correct message.
If the sender, the person giving the message, does not get a reply back, the sender must repeat it until the receiver starts closing the loop.
If there is difficulty in confirming reception of a message, the sender may need to consider rephrasing the message.
Closed-loop communication should be used to confirm that messages from VTS personnel are correctly received and understood.
This can be achieved through the following steps: 
• The VTS operator requesting the recipient to repeat back important information (for example, repeat advice, repeat instruction or repeat back).

• The recipient reading back or acknowledging in a manner to clearly indicate they have understood the message and will take appropriate action.

• The VTS operator listening to the read-back to ascertain that the message has been correctly acknowledged and take immediate action to correct any discrepancies revealed by the read-back.
VTS INFORMATION.
Berth changed to Elm five, read back over.
SHIP Berth changed to Acorn five, over.
VTS NO.
Berth changed to Elm five, read back over.
SHIP Berth changed to Elm five, over.
VTS YES.
Out 5.3.3. INFLUENCE OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL FACTORS Some factors such as mental and emotional state, health, culture, working environment, distractions etc.
can influence the interpretation of communications.
Efforts should be made to minimize their negative effects on communications.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 3 P 19 
6. PART C STANDARD PHRASES 6.1. OVERVIEW The aim of this part is to establish globally harmonized standard phrases for use by a VTS.
VTS personnel should be familiar with these phrases, which should be remembered for immediate recall.
It follows that the number of standard VTS phrases should be limited to those that VTS personnel can reasonably be expected to learn and this section, therefore, restricts the number of standard phrases to those operational circumstances where it is judged that time may be critical or where misunderstandings might compromise safety.
Message markers have intentionally not been included in the standard phrases as the appropriate message marker may differ dependent on the context.
These standard phrases are not intended to replace or contradict the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972 or special local rules or recommendations made by IMO concerning ships' routeing.
Neither are they intended to supersede the International Code of Signals [8] nor to replace normal radiotelephone practice as set out in the ITU Radio Regulations.
They are designed to complement the phrases in SMCP adapting them as necessary to align with current recognized best practice, recognising that SMCP has not been updated since 
2001. The following typographical conventions are used throughout this part to clearly emphasize the recommended phrases: ( ) brackets indicate that the part of the message enclosed within the brackets may be added where relevant; [ ] square brackets indicate optional content; oblique strokes indicate that the items on either side of the stroke are alternatives; / dots indicate that the relevant information is to be filled in where the dots occur; (italic letters) indicate the kind of information requested; and ~ tildes precede possible words or phrases which can be used after/in association with the given standard phrase.
6.2. GENERAL 6.2.1. GENERIC COMMUNICATIONS Table 5 Generic communication messages Message Element Message Intent RECEIVED Information has been received and only acknowledgement of receipt is needed PERMISSION (to) Permission
<doc_end>
