<doc_start>
to the warning.
Consequences are up to the recipient.
5.1.2.4. Instruction This indicates that the following message implies the intention of the sender to direct the action of others.
In a VTS area, ships should comply with instructions given to the ship by a VTS unless contradictory safety and/or marine environment protection reasons exist.
Masters may be required to report on their actions should they decide to disregard any instruction given by a VTS.
It is important, therefore, that when an instruction is issued by a VTS it has the appropriate regulatory status and authority to do so.
VTS INSTRUCTION.
Remain West of No 1 Buoy until ship X has passed.
5.1.2.5. Question This indicates that the following message is of interrogative character.
VTS VTS QUESTION.
What is your maximum draft?
5.1.2.6. Answer This indicates that the following message is the reply to a previous question.
An answer should not contain another question.
VTS ANSWER.
Pilot boarding 0800. 5.1.2.7. Request This indicates that the following message is asking for action from others with respect to the ship and signals that something is to be arranged or provided.
Request should not be used involving navigation or to modify the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972 (COLREGs) [8].
VTS VTS REQUEST.
Wait for pilot at (location).
5.1.2.8. Intention This message marker indicates that the following message informs others about immediate navigational action that is intended to be taken.
The use of this message marker is logically restricted to ships and is not to be used by VTS.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 11 5.1.3. PHONETIC ALPHABET The phonetic alphabet is used to distinguish between letters, which sound similar when transmitted over the radio.
They are commonly used when transmitting call signs and in cases where a single letter is used to designate something.
Pronunciation of the phonetic alphabet is as shown in Table 2: Table 2 Phonetic alphabet and pronunciation Letter Spelling Pronunciation A Alpha al fah B Bravo brah voh C Charlie char lee D Delta dell tah E Echo eck ho F Foxtrot foks trot G Golf golf H Hotel hoh tel I India in dee a J Juliet jew lee ett K Kilo key loh L Lima lee mah M Mike mike Letter Spelling Pronunciation N November no vem bar O Oscar oss cah P Papa pah Q Quebec keh beck R Romeo row me oh S Sierra see air rah T Tango tang go U Uniform you nee form V Victor vik tah W Whiskey wiss key X X-ray ecks ray Y Yankee yang key Z Zulu zoo loo 5.1.4. PHONETIC NUMBERS [NUMERALS] Numbers are to be spoken in separate digits.
For example: “ wun fife zeero” for 150 Pronunciation of numbers shall be in the phonetic form as shown in Table 3 : Table 3 Phonetic numbers and pronunciation Number Spelling Pronunciation 0 zero zeero 1 one wun 2 two too 3 three tree 4 four fower 5 five fife 6 six six 7 seven seven 8 eight ait Spelling Pronunciation Decimal day see mal Hundred hun dred Thousand tou sand IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 3 P 12 Number Spelling Pronunciation 9 nine niner Spelling Spelling Pronunciation 5.1.5. POSITIONS Positions may be passed either in latitude and longitude or relative to a mark.
In considering which method is most appropriate, the sender should recognize that the recipient will first have to plot a position passed in latitude and longitude in order to assimilate the information.
When latitude and longitude are used, these shall be expressed in degrees and minutes (and decimals of a minute if necessary), north or south of the Equator, and East or West of zero degrees longitude.
VTS WARNING.
Dangerous wreck reported in position 15 degrees 34 minutes North, 61 degrees 29 minutes West.
When the position is related to a mark, the mark should be a defined charted object.
VTS WARNING.
Fishing vessel not under command bearing 120 degrees from Fairway Buoy 1.2 nautical miles.
5.1.6. BEARINGS The bearing of the mark or ship concerned is the bearing using 360 degree notation from True North unless otherwise stated.
Bearings may be either from the mark or from the ship.
VTS VTS INFORMATION.
Pilot boat is bearing 215 degrees from you.
5.1.7. COURSE As a general term, “Course” refers to the intended direction of movement of a ship through the water.
Unless it is intended to use this term in a general sense, one of the specific descriptors below should normally be used by VTS and expressed in 360-degree notation from True North unless otherwise stated.
A mariner will not normally use a decimal course (i.e., course 162.3 degrees identified on the VTS Decision Support
<doc_end>
