<doc_start>
have resulted in accidents.
The use of local terminology should be avoided as this can lead to confusion.
For example: MAY/MIGHT Do not say: “You may/might enter the fairway”.
Say: “ANSWER.
You have permission to enter the fairway”.
SHOULD Do not say: “You should anchor in anchorage Z4”.
Say: “ADVICE.
Anchor in anchorage Z4”.
COULD Do not say: “You could be running into danger”.
Say: “WARNING.
You are running into danger”.
CAN The word “CAN” describes the possibility, or the capability of doing something.
Do not say: “Can you adjust your ETD from the berth by 20 minutes?” Say: “QUESTION.
Are you able to adjust your ETD 20 minutes earlier?” 5.2.8. RESPONSES When the answer to a closed question is in the affirmative or negative, consider the need to repeat the appropriate phrase or add an explanation in the response.
For a response in the affirmative say: IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 16 “Yes…” followed by the appropriate phrase.
For a response in the negative, say: “No…” followed by the appropriate phrase.
Where a message is received and only acknowledgement of receipt is needed, say “received”.
If information requested is not immediately available, advise the caller to “Stand by” and consider the need to indicate the time interval within which the information will be available.
5.2.9. CORRECTIONS When an error is made in a message, say: “Correction” plus the corrected part of the message.
VTS Pilot boarding time 
1400. CORRECTION - pilot boarding time 1430. 5.2.10. REPETITION When communication is difficult, phrases or words may be transmitted twice.
If any part of a message is considered sufficiently important, the message should be repeated using the appropriate phrase: “Repeat” followed by the corresponding part of the message.
vTs VTS The tide is 1.2m – REPEAT – The tide is 1.2m.
When the message is not properly heard, say: “Say again”.
5.2.11. DISTRESS AND SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS Guidance on distress and safety communications is provided in the ITU publication Radio Regulations Volume 1 (2020) Chapter VII.
[6]This includes distress (MAYDAY), urgency (PAN PAN) and safety (SECURITÉ) calls and messages and operational procedures for such calls over Digital Selective Calling (DSC) or voice channels.
More detailed guidance is published by IMO in the GMDSS Manual [10] which includes: 
• “distress, … urgency … and safety ….
communications shall have absolute priority over all other transmissions”.

• “All stations which receive a distress alert or a call transmitted on the distress and safety frequencies … shall immediately cease any transmission capable of interfering, ….
set watch on the radiotelephone frequency associated ….
and prepare for subsequent traffic”.

• “Coast station … in receipt of distress alerts or distress calls shall ensure that they are routed as soon as possible to a rescue coordination centre”.
A VTS may receive distress and safety communications (e.g., VTS working channel or VHF channel 16).
VTS personnel should, therefore, be trained and practiced in responding to distress and safety communications.
5.3. HOW TO INTERPRET A MESSAGE Interpretation of the message requires skills such as encoding in order to achieve effective communications.
Just as confusion can arise from errors in encoding, it can also arise from decoding especially during emergency situations.
There could be a number of reasons (internal/external factors) that influence the decoding procedures which should be considered, see Figure 1 below.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 17 SENDER RECEIVER intention meaning 1 t code decode Relationship FEEDBACK <n’ Surroundings Figure 1 Communication process 5.3.1. EFFECTIVE LISTENING SKILLS Effective listening skills are used to actively understand information provided by the speaker and it can be categorized into the following steps: 5.3.1.1. Listening Listening involves the reception of sounds from the sender by: 
• avoiding interruptions; 
• clearing one's mind of distractions; and 
• focusing on the speaker.
5.3.1.2. Clarity The sender and receiver both have a responsibility to ensure that what is said is understood: Ask open questions to probe for further detail if required.
Avoid asking leading questions.
Avoid coming to conclusions before the sender finishes.
Be aware of the sender’s choice and application of words.
Encourage feedback through questioning.
5.3.1.3. Interpretation Interpretation not only requires verification of what the sender has said, but also the understanding of the information given.
Steps to ensure understanding are: Communicate your interpretation and verify its accuracy.

• Identify the main issues.

• Do not assume what the sender will say, particularly when receiving routine communications.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 18 5.3.2. CLOSED LOOP COMMUNICATIONS [READ-BACK] Misunderstandings in messages received may include half-heard words or guessed-at numbers.
The potential for misunderstanding increases with the complexity of messages and may cause the bridge team to: accept inadequate information received; or 
• determine
<doc_end>
