<doc_start>
degrees 34 minutes North, 61 degrees 29 minutes West.
When the position is related to a mark, the mark should be a defined charted object.
VTS WARNING.
Fishing vessel not under command bearing 120 degrees from Fairway Buoy 1.2 nautical miles.
5.1.6. BEARINGS The bearing of the mark or ship concerned is the bearing using 360 degree notation from True North unless otherwise stated.
Bearings may be either from the mark or from the ship.
VTS VTS INFORMATION.
Pilot boat is bearing 215 degrees from you.
5.1.7. COURSE As a general term, “Course” refers to the intended direction of movement of a ship through the water.
Unless it is intended to use this term in a general sense, one of the specific descriptors below should normally be used by VTS and expressed in 360-degree notation from True North unless otherwise stated.
A mariner will not normally use a decimal course (i.e., course 162.3 degrees identified on the VTS Decision Support Tool (DST) would be referred to 162 degrees when stated over the radio).
See Table 4: Table 4 Course descriptors Course Made That course which a ship has made good over ground, as a result of the effect of currents, Good tidal streams and leeway.
Course to Make That course which a ship is to make good over ground, after allowing for the effect of Good currents, tidal streams, and leeway.
Track The path followed between one position and another.
Planned Track The path to be followed between one position and another.
Heading The horizontal direction of the vessel's bows at a given moment measured in degrees clockwise from True North.
Example: VTS VTS ADVICE.
Course to make good 127 degrees.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 13 5.1.8. DISTANCES To be expressed in nautical miles or cables (tenths of a nautical mile), the unit is always to be stated.
5.1.9. SPEED To be expressed in knots (nautical mile per hour).
‘Speed’ refers to speed through the water.
If speed over the ground is intended, then this should be stated as ‘Speed over the Ground’ (SOG).
5.1.10. TIME Time should be given in local time in a 24 hour format.
Mariners do not usually add the suffix “hours”.
5.1.11. GEOGRAPHICAL NAMES Place names should be those that are on navigational charts and publications.
Where this is not available then latitude and longitude should be used.
5.1.12. ABBREVIATIONS Abbreviations will often save time in speech.
Many abbreviations are so commonly used in normal speech they are more familiar than the original, unabbreviated form (i.e., radar).
Abbreviations in radio transmissions may be used provided that: 
• they are quicker and easier to use than the full word (e.g., ETA/ETD in place of Estimated Time of Arrival/Estimated Time of Departure); they are sufficiently well known to avoid any confusion and subsequent confirmatory transmissions; and if there is any confusion, the full term is readily substituted.
5.2. DELIVERING A MESSAGE VTS communications should be professional, clear, concise, consistent, and accurate.
Speech and vocal patterns should be adjusted in order to increase the likelihood of mutual understanding regardless of experience or native language.
5.2.1. PREPARATION WHEN USING VHF The proper use of VHF equipment is essential if transmissions are to be successful.
In particular: VTS personnel should consider the volume and positioning of the microphone.

• It is important to listen on the channel before transmitting to ensure there will be no interferences from another station.

• A brief pause is normally required before starting to speak there may be a delay in transmission after pressing the press to transmit (PTT) button.
5.2.2. TONE AND VOLUME The tone of the voice is crucial for mutual understanding.
A message should be supported by the tone of voice used.
Research has indicated that how words are expressed is just as important as what words are used.
Transmissions should be sent with a polite tone of calm confidence, and professionalism.
VTS personnel must always remain professional even if they receive overly familiar or aggressive transmissions.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 14 The volume of the voice is important.
The volume of a transmission should be at a level used for normal conversation.
Shouting is unprofessional and causes distortion, whilst speaking too quietly could result in the message not being heard.
5.2.3. EMPHASIS ON KEYWORDS The keyword is the most important part of the message.
This should be spoken slightly louder and longer than its neighbouring words to provide emphasis (e.g., WARNING SHALLOW water AHEAD of you).
5.2.4. SPEECH RATE Speech rate is the speed at which a speaker conveys the message.
Key points for speech rate are: 
• Modulating speech at a slower rate of around 120 words per minute (WPM) is highly recommended for
<doc_end>
