<doc_start>
as what words are used.
Transmissions should be sent with a polite tone of calm confidence, and professionalism.
VTS personnel must always remain professional even if they receive overly familiar or aggressive transmissions.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 14 The volume of the voice is important.
The volume of a transmission should be at a level used for normal conversation.
Shouting is unprofessional and causes distortion, whilst speaking too quietly could result in the message not being heard.
5.2.3. EMPHASIS ON KEYWORDS The keyword is the most important part of the message.
This should be spoken slightly louder and longer than its neighbouring words to provide emphasis (e.g., WARNING SHALLOW water AHEAD of you).
5.2.4. SPEECH RATE Speech rate is the speed at which a speaker conveys the message.
Key points for speech rate are: 
• Modulating speech at a slower rate of around 120 words per minute (WPM) is highly recommended for clear and effective communication.

• In emergency situations and in developing unsafe situations, a slower rate of 100 WPM should be applied so important information can be clearly and accurately delivered under high-pressure and cognitively challenging conditions.
In an international environment where people from different linguistic backgrounds speak with their own accents, intonation and pronunciation, it is crucial to maintain an appropriate rate of speech.
This increases the likelihood of comprehension and reduces anxiety.
5.2.5. WORD GROUPING AND PAUSING It is generally recognized that the use of four words in a short phrase is best understood by listeners.
Therefore, understanding can be enhanced considerably by dividing sentences into smaller groups, or phrases, and by pausing briefly between word groups.
VTS personnel can also moderate their speech rates by pausing between each word group.
The effect of word grouping and pausing is important for the following reasons: It gives listeners the time to process each pack of information that is delivered.
It enables speakers to prepare subsequent information for delivery.

• 
• It decreases the use of unnecessary fillers like ‘um, hm, uh, …’, which hinders mutual intelligibility.
VTS INFORMATION.
(pause) Container ship Stardust (pause) not under command in position (pause) 2.1 nautical miles (pause) southeast from Morrison lighthouse (pause)… 1 word+(pause)+3words+(pause)+5 words+(pause)+5 words+(pause) +4 words+(pause) 5.2.6. QUESTIONING TECHNIQUES Information flow within a VTS is paramount.
A VTS often gathers and disseminates information based on real time situations within the VTS area.
In the computer world the term ‘garbage in, garbage out’ is often used.
The same applies to VTS communications, if you ask the wrong questions, you will probably get the wrong answer.
To ensure effective questioning the following techniques should be used: 
• Closed Questions 
• Open Questions 
• Funnel Questions 5.2.6.1. Closed questions A closed question usually receives a one-word answer, or a short factual statement.
IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 3 P 15 VTS VTS QUESTION.
Do you have any defects?
VTS VTS QUESTION.
Are you able to see the entrance beacon?
5.2.6.2. Open questions Generally open questions deliberately seek longer answers and are the opposite of closed questions.
Open questions usually contain terms to elicit further information.
VTS VTS QUESTION.
What is the nature of your problem?
5.2.6.3. Funnel questions This questioning technique involves the use of a series of questions.
Initially general questions are asked which increase in detail with each subsequent question.
With funnel questioning it may be useful to start with one or more closed questions before following up with more open questions.
VTS QUESTION.
Do you see the Princes Inner Buoy?
VTS QUESTION.
Is the buoy lit?
VTS QUESTION.
Is the buoy in the correct position?
VTS QUESTION.
Describe the damage?
5.2.7. AMBIGUOUS TERMINOLOGY Some words in English have meanings depending on the context in which they appear.
Misunderstandings frequently occur, especially in VTS communications, and have resulted in accidents.
The use of local terminology should be avoided as this can lead to confusion.
For example: MAY/MIGHT Do not say: “You may/might enter the fairway”.
Say: “ANSWER.
You have permission to enter the fairway”.
SHOULD Do not say: “You should anchor in anchorage Z4”.
Say: “ADVICE.
Anchor in anchorage Z4”.
COULD Do not say: “You could be running into danger”.
Say: “WARNING.
You are running into danger”.
CAN The word “CAN” describes the possibility, or the capability of doing something.
Do not say: “Can you adjust your ETD from the berth by 20 minutes?” Say: “QUESTION.
Are you able to adjust your ETD 20 minutes earlier?” 5.2.8. RESPONSES When the answer to a closed question is in the affirmative or negative, consider the need to repeat the appropriate phrase or add an explanation in the response.
For a response in the affirmative say: IALA Guideline G1132 VTS Voice Communications and Phraseology Edition 2.2 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1132:ed2.2 P 16
<doc_end>
