<doc_start>
Training for Deck Officers Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1149:ed1.1 P 10 Table 1 Examples of practical training elements Training activity Specific items Evaluation elements about VTS Evaluation requirements − Obtain the necessary VTS information Voyage or passage plan Develop a voyage or passage plan Develop a contingency plan − Identify the relevant VTS interaction(s) − Include the VTS information in the voyage or passage plan − Consider possible incidents in the VTS area − Identify contingencies that take into account how VTS can assist VTS influencing factors should be fully considered and reflected in the formulation of the voyage or passage plan.
Actual operation through a specific VTS area Entry into the VTS area Passage through the VTS area Incidents within the − Contact VTS − Include relevant VTS information in your decision making − Maintain communication with VTS − Actively participate in the VTS − Contact VTS − Include relevant VTS information in your In the VTS area, ships should report to VTS as required, seek assistance from VTS, and cooperate with VTS to deal with incidents.
VTS area decision making − Maintain communication with VTS 6.3. EQUIPMENT TRAINING 6.3.1. VHF Effective VTS VHF communication directly contributes to navigational safety and efficiency.
VHF communication training improves coordination and understanding between ships and the VTS centre.
This training may also be carried out as simulation.
6.3.2. ECDIS The use of ECDIS assists in the identification of VTS coverage, and location of the VTS reporting line/point.
Training on ECDIS should include reference to the use of ECDIS in a VTS area.
Examples of elements for training are provided in table 
2. Table 2 Examples of VTS factors that can be considered in ECDIS practical training Training activity Evaluation elements Voyage or passage plan through the VTS area − Clarify coverage of VTS and location of VTS reporting points − Voyage or passage planning should include information on the VTS area Monitoring the movement of the ship in the VTS area − Take note of the VTS area and VTS reporting lines/points IALA Guideline G1149 VTS Training for Deck Officers Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1149:ed1.1 P 11 6.4. CONSIDERATIONS FOR SHIPS IN THE VTS AREA There are a number of factors that should be taken into account by the bridge team when a ship is in a VTS area.
Examples of elements for training are provided in Table 
3. Table 3 VTS factors that may be considered when a ship is in a VTS area Training activity Evaluation elements − Providing estimated arrival / departure from VTS area，including format, content and Considerations – format of the estimated arrival / departure report; entering the VTS area − Procedure to follow when entering VTS area，including establishing contact with the VTS centre, communications and reporting requirements.
− Movement within a VTS area，including the mandatory requirements for ships in the VTS area, communication and reporting requirements; Considerations – − Anchoring in VTS area, including the designated anchorage, communications and reporting within the VTS area requirements; − Berthing / unberthing in VTS area, including the arrival berth report, traffic clearance, speed or other restrictions and reporting requirements.
Considerations – departing the VTS area − Procedures to follow when departing the VTS area, including reporting requirements.
6.5. INCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES A VTS supports safety of navigation and protects the environment through active monitoring and interaction with ships.
VTS can assist with the coordination of response during incidents and emergencies, while ensuring the safety of the waterway.
Incidents or emergencies may include search and rescue/man overboard, engine failure, steering gear failure, collision or grounding, encountering adverse weather that may affect safe voyage.
Examples of elements for training are provided in table 
4. Table 4 Examples of incidents and emergencies Training activity Evaluation elements − Report made to VTS in a timely manner; − Relevant information included, depending on the situation.
Information may include: time and position of incident, nature of emergency, type of assistance required; Incident / Emergency − Communication with VTS is clear and concise; − Further information requested by the VTS is provided; − Request for navigational assistance (if required); − VTS is kept informed as the situation develop; and − VTS is advised when the incident / emergency has been resolved.
IALA Guideline G1149 VTS Training for Deck Officers Edition 1.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1149:ed1.1 P 12 6.6. FAMILIARIZATION ACTIVITIES Familiarization activities may include visiting a VTS centre or arranging for a presentation from a representative of a VTS.
The objective of the familiarization is to explain the purpose of VTS to the deck officer, thereby enhancing VTS awareness.
To achieve the objective, familiarization activities should be structured, and may use a workbook or other process.
The familiarization activity may include: 
• Equipment used 
• Procedures followed Legal and regulatory requirements of the VTS 
• How the VTS monitors and interacts with traffic
<doc_end>
