<doc_start>
of vessel appearing to violate regulations 4 Environmental and fairway monitoring 4 IALA Guideline G1110 Use of Decision Support Tools for VTS Personnel Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1110:ed2.1 P 11 DST Group Description Weather forecasts for the planning of operations Long term (Planning) Tidal predictions Dynamic under keel clearance Near real-time systems Oil spill detection alert Real-time Weather alert AtoNs malfunction or off- position alert Pre-requisites Analysis of effects of weather on regular operations, weather limits (wind, currents, visibility etc) Configuration of tidal window Modelling of area, data collection from vessel /fairway Oil spill detection equipment available Real-time sensors available Fairway equipment available Alert Type None None Warning Warning / alarm Warning / alarm Warning / alarm User interface/ comments Awareness of effects of weather on VTS area Awareness of tidal prediction effect on VTS area Identification of vessels due to pass through areas, of which they will exceed under keel clearance Notification of potential oil spill Notification of adverse weather Notification of loss of AtoN No 5 Incident response Long term Incident analysis and debriefing (Planning) Incident recording Near real-time SAR planning tools Ability for system to record and playback traffic situation Data from sensors available and recorded To assist in the execution of SAR procedures None None None Playback available for analysis Playback of data from sensors available for incident analysis Overlay of SAR tools IALA Guideline G1110 Use of Decision Support Tools for VTS Personnel Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1110:ed2.1 P 12 DST Group Description Not under command Real-time Distress call alert Pre-requisites System identification of navigational status change System identification of distress alert received Alert Type Caution Alarm User interface/ comments Identification of vessel switching navigation status to ‘not under command’ Notification of distress received No 6 Anomaly detection Risk index systems Long term (Planning) Long term history analytics Near real-time Abnormal route alert Abnormal behaviour alert (ship- to-ship operations, sudden Real-time change of speed, sudden turn) AIS anomalies alert (loss of track or transmission) Configuration of rules for risk index calculation Human or machine learning through historical data sets, to identify vessel patterns and areas of interest Standard route patterns available based on the historical data, thresholds set Standard route patterns available based on the historical data, thresholds set Availability / unavailability of the AIS data None None Warning Warning Warning / alarm Vessel classification for vessels which reach specified risk measurement Use of historical data to determine likely vessel patterns and areas of interest Identification of abnormal route Identification of abnormal behaviour Identification of loss of AIS data IALA Guideline G1110 Use of Decision Support Tools for VTS Personnel Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1110:ed2.1 P 13 e 
4. DEFINITIONS The definitions of terms used in this Guideline can be found in the International Dictionary of Marine Aids to Navigation (IALA Dictionary) and were checked as correct at the time of going to print.
Where conflict arises, the IALA Dictionary should be considered as the authoritative source of definitions used in IALA documents.
In addition, for this document, the following definitions apply: Alarm A high priority alert requiring immediate attention and action (IMO Res.
A.1021(26)).
Alert An announcement of abnormal situations and conditions requiring attentions (IMO Res.
A.1021(26)).
Caution Lowest priority of an alert.
Awareness of a condition which does not warrant an alarm or warning condition, but still requires attention out of the ordinary consideration of the situation or of given information (IMO Res.
A.1021(26)).
Decision-maker A person or group authorized to make decisions.
Decision support tool (DST) A tool to assist the decision-maker at an operational, tactical and strategic level.
This may be in real-time or at a tactical or strategic level.
Emergency alarm Highest priority of an alert.
Alarms which indicate immediate danger to human life or to the ship and its machinery exits and require immediate action (IMO Res.
A.1021(26)).
Long term planning Refers to the action of analysing currently available information to proactively manage predicted future events.
Near real-time Refers to predictions of developing situations.
Real-time Refers to the immediate action taken to respond to current or developing situations.
Warning Condition requiring immediate attention, but not immediate action (IMO Res.
A.1021(26)).

5. ABBREVIATIONS AIS Automatic Identification System CPA Closest Point of Approach DST Decision support tools ETA Estimated Time of Arrival IMO International Maritime Organization SAR Search and Rescue TCPA Time to Closest Point of Approach TSS Traffic Separation Scheme VTS Vessel traffic service or vessel traffic services (dependent on context) VTSO VTS Operator 
6. REFERENCES IMO.
Resolution A.1158(32) Guidelines for Vessel Traffic Services IALA Guideline G1110 Use of Decision Support Tools for VTS Personnel Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1110:ed2.1 P 14 e IMO.
Resolution A.1021(26) Code on Alerts and Indicators [3] IALA.
Standard S1040 Vessel Traffic Services IALA.
Recommendation R0125 (V-125) The Use and Presentation of Symbology at a VTS Centre IALA.
Recommendation R0127 (V-127) VTS Operations
<doc_end>
