<doc_start>
awareness and the opportunity to take action where and if required.
In some situations, a DST may provide some suggestions regarding an appropriate course of action.
These suggestions may be based on pre-defined solutions, previously agreed between the VTS provider and the DST provider or may be based on machine learning of previous similar situations.
It will be for the VTS personnel to decide whether, or not, to make use of such suggestions.
IALA Guideline G1110 Use of Decision Support Tools for VTS Personnel Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1110:ed2.1 ® P 4 The DST may also prompt the VTS operator for additional input in order to help derive a solution to a current situation.
This may be based on pre-defined questions that will help to guide the VTS operator’s thought process or based on machine learning of previous similar situations.
Long term planning of DSTs involves the implementation of defined Operational Procedures within a VTS system in order that the DSTs are correctly configured to address identified risk situations within the VTS area.
2.3. ALERTS AND INDICATORS The use of different levels of alerts could increase the situational awareness for VTS operators.
In accordance with IALA Recommendation R0125, The Use and Presentation of Symbology at a VTS Centre [4], it is recommended that the terminology used for alerts (alarm, warning and caution) reflects the maritime standards contained in IMO Resolution A.1021(26) Code on alerts and indicators [2] unless particular local circumstances require otherwise.
The increasing levels of alerts provided by the DST are emergency alarm, alarm, warning and caution (Figure 1).
(HD es.
Aso2a(26) ‘Normal Developing situation Perceived high risk situation Figure 1 DST increasing alerts 2.3.1. EMERGENCY ALARMS For conditions which indicate immediate danger to human life, vessels or the environment that require the immediate initiation of emergency procedures, the DST should provide emergency alarms.
Emergency alarm alerts may remain after acknowledgement indicating the alert situation still exists, until the alert parameters are no longer detected.
Example of emergency alarm: “Vessel is not able to avoid shallow water.” 2.3.2. ALARMS For conditions requiring immediate attention and immediate interaction, the DST should provide an alarm.
Alarms are presented to make the VTS personnel aware of a situation that requires an immediate response.
Alarm alerts may remain after acknowledgement indicating the alert situation still exists, until the alert parameters are no longer detected.
Example of alarm: “Vessel approaching shallow water with minimum time and manoeuvring space to avoid shallow water.” IALA Guideline G1110 Use of Decision Support Tools for VTS Personnel Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1110:ed2.1 4) P 5 2.3.3. WARNINGS For conditions requiring immediate attention, but not immediate interaction, the DST should provide a warning.
Warnings are presented for precautionary reasons to make the VTS personnel aware of changed conditions which are not immediately hazardous but may become hazardous if no action is taken.
These warning alerts may disappear once the alert has been acknowledged.
Example of warning: “Vessel approaching shallow water with sufficient manoeuvring space to avoid shallow water.” 2.3.4. CAUTIONS In a routine condition, the DST should provide a caution alert.
A caution alert is a condition of awareness which does not warrant an alarm or warning condition, but still requires attention out of the ordinary consideration of the situation or of given information.
Example of caution: “Speed vector gives basic information which can be set by the VTS personnel.” 2.4. ADMINISTRATION OF DECISION SUPPORT TOOLS Administrator functionalities should be provided to authorized users to enable the adjustment of alert thresholds and management of other pre-determined requirement parameters.
Alert parameters should be set at levels appropriate to support the goals of the VTS service, being careful to avoid excessive notifications that may cause operator fatigue, distraction, and other factors that may negatively impact overall safety and efficiency.
Management reports may be generated from alert statistics and/or VTSO actions for analysis.
2.5. OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF DECISION SUPPORT TOOLS DSTs may be based upon real-time, near real-time and long-term planning assessment of risks associated with navigational safety and efficiency and the prediction of traffic situations.
The DST should: provide alerts and indicators (audible and / or visible); 
• reduce the workload; 
• enhance efficiency; be accurate and in real time; be configurable with local VTS operational procedures; 
• facilitate the result-oriented decision making by VTS personnel in accordance with the purpose of the VTS; use the available data to predict future situations; 
• comply with IALA Recommendation R0125 The use and presentation of Symbology at a VTS Centre [4]; and 
• have recording capability.
When the risk level exceeds a pre-defined threshold, the VTSO may be advised of the recommended risk mitigation options.
IALA Guideline G1110 Use of Decision Support Tools for VTS Personnel Edition 2.1 urn:mrn:iala:pub:g1110:ed2.1 4) P 6 2.6. TRAINING The VTS provider should ensure that VTS personnel are adequately trained in
<doc_end>
